Here are the lessons I learned building a company to 500 people and $7B in transactions while raising $125M along the way.
I love reading blogs by founders who try to give back and share what they’ve learned building their companies, so today I’ll try and do the same.
When I look back over the last 15 years building 4 different companies (most recently Bigcommerce), here are some things I’d do different if I was to start another company, as well as a few things I wouldn’t change.
If you’re just getting started, keep in mind that it’s at least a 7–10 year journey, so when the going gets tough I found it can be useful to get some perspective from other founders who have gone down the same path.
Stay focused, be positive and know that even when you “get big” it’s still a roller coaster of ups, downs, highs, lows, fun and fu*ks. That’s why having a big, compelling vision and building a great team around you is so important.
Here’s my list. I hope you find it useful.
Things I’d do differently
Things I’d do again
Read more posts like this at my personal blog, BlogMitch.com or follow me on Twitter @mitchellharper
I like building, advising and investing in software companies. Most recently @Bigcommerce co-founder. I also blog at BlogMitch.com
Earlier this week, an interview with the actor Cara Delevingne made the rounds online. In it, the anchors of “Good Day Sacramento” refer to her as “Carla” and then ask her whether she read the novel Paper Towns. (She stars in the film adaptation.)
The interview goes downhill from there, with the interviewers suggesting that she is tired, and that she is not adequately excited about the opportunity to be on Good Day Sacramento, which is the #1 morning show in literally all of Sacramento, and then they tell her to take a nap and cut the interview short.
I am friends with Cara, and the author of the book in question. I spent more than a month with her on tour in Europe and the U.S., and I watched as again and again, she was asked this question. Cara has read the book (multiple times), but the question is annoying — not least because her male costar, Nat Wolff, was almost always asked when he’d read the book, while Cara was almost always asked if she’d read it.
In the past two months, I’ve done something like 300 on-camera interviews. As you get asked the same questions again and again, you develop rote responses as a way of protecting yourself. The rote responses are true — the cast really was like a family; we really are all still friends — but in the repetition, the answers start to feel less and less honest.
For example, I was asked in most interviews how involved I was in the film, and I told the truth, which is that I did basically nothing and sat around all day eating Cheetos and telling everyone they were doing a good job. And then Nat would jump in and say, “John’s being modest. His understanding of the story and characters were vital to us.” But because we were reciting lines more than answering questions, the answer started to feel dishonest to me. At one point between interviews, I said to Nat, “I can’t remember if I even like Cheetos.” And he said, “That’s okay, man. I can’t remember if your understanding of the story was vital to us.”
Look, these are obviously the first worldiest of first world problems, but the whole process of commodifying personhood to sell movie tickets is inherently dehumanizing. The TV people want some part of you, and in exchange for it, they will put the name of your movie on TV. But in that process, you do lose something of your self. (For the record, I don’t get the feeling that the journalists asking the same questions over and over particularly savor the experience, either. But they need their sit-down interview, and we need our publicity, and so the wheel spins on.)
There are bigger problems in the world — in fact, almost every problem in the world is bigger — but if people are going to pay attention to these junket interviews and criticize Cara for responding flippantly to a stupid question, I think context might be helpful.
I was lucky to share most of my interviews with Nat, one of my closest and most trusted friends, and to learn from him how to deal with uncomfortable questions. (For instance, when asked is X a good kisser, or is X is a better kisser than Y, Nat gently explains that he doesn’t answer questions about kissing, because the women he works with should be talked about for their performances in the film not for their kissing.) But I never really got good at junketry. I just sort of gave up.
Like, there’s a line in the beginning of the novel: “Everyone gets a miracle.” The male narrator of the story believes his miracle is Margo Roth Spiegelman, the character Cara plays in the movie. Later in the book, the boy realizes that Margo is not a miracle, that she is just a person, and that his imagining her as a miracle has been terribly hurtful to them both. But still, I was asked over a hundred times, “Who’s your miracle?” At first, I tried to fight it, tried to argue that we must see people as people, that we must learn to imagine them complexly instead of idealizing them, that the romantic male gaze is limiting and destructive to women. That’s the whole point of the story to me.
But eventually, I just started to say, “My miracle is my wife.” (And then Nat would deadpan, “My miracle is also John’s wife. She’s great.”) In the end, rather than fight, I stuck to the script.
Cara, however, refuses to stick to the script. She refuses to indulge lazy questions and refuses to turn herself into an automaton to get through long days of junketry. I don’t find that behavior entitled or haughty. I find it admirable. Cara Delevingne doesn’t exist to feed your narrative or your news feed — and that’s precisely why she’s so fucking interesting.
I write books, including Looking for Alaska and The Fault in Our Stars. (Books are like tweets, except longer.) I also make videos with my brother.
Eu particularmente estou um pouco cansada de ler tantos textos falando mal da minha geração. Tenho vinte e poucos, sou parte da geração Y, millennials, ou sei lá qual é o nome mais hype que estão atribuindo no momento. Tento compreender isso como aquele fenômeno de que toda geração acha que é melhor do que a próxima, mas penso que certos estereótipos que estão sendo criados não valem a pena.
Rolam por aí ideias de que a nossa geração é preguiçosa, de que a gente quer conquistar tudo sem trabalhar duro por isso, de que achamos que somos especiais, e finalmente a mais esquista de todas: a de que não sabemos nos relacionar com as pessoas. Somos superficiais, interesseiros, falta amor. Por causa do Tinder, do Facebook, do Twitter, do botão unfriend e das altas taxas de divórcios.
Então vou dividir com o mundo os meus vinte centavos sobre o assunto: o grande problema é que a gente sabe se relacionar de uma forma mais livre, menos dramática e com menos firulas do que as gerações anteriores. E vou explicar por quê: nós estamos quebrando protocolos sociais.
Sabe aquele seu Tio Francis que despreza seu sonho de trabalhar com desenvolvimento de videogames e sempre que tem a chance fala mal do seu cabelo? Então, ao contrário do que dizem seus outros parentes, Tio Francis não te ama. Esse não é o jeitinho dele de demonstrar afeto. Ele não fala essas coisas porque se preocupa com o seu futuro. Tio Francis é apenas um escroto. Ele gosta de te colocar pra baixo.
Os nossos pais, tios e avós tem o costume de dar muita corda pro Tio Francis, tanto o seu, quanto os Tios Francis individuais de cada um deles. Mandam felicidades no aniversário, fazem reuniões de família para visitá-lo, montam grupo no WhatsApp pra compartilhar umas piadas sem graça e trocadilhos infames feitos com emojis. Essa relação com o Tio Francis, que só traz amargura pra sua vida (seja na forma de reprovação da sua profissão, de desprezo pela sua escolha religiosa ou orientação sexual, de comentários infelizes a respeito da pessoa que você ama) é empurrada com a barriga pra manter aparências e status quo.
E quem se fode nessa equação? Vocezinha(o), que tem que manter na sua vida relações horrorosas baseadas numa eterna punheta social por algum motivo bizarro, como para não machucar os sentimentos da Vovó Matilda, que é mãe do Tio Francis. Ou porque vai ficar chato pro seu irmão, que trabalha na firma dele. Pra quem não sacou até agora, Tio Francis é uma metáfora pra qualquer amigo, “primo de consideração”, parente, namorado ou colega de trabalho. Às vezes, Tio Francis é aquele cara que emprestou uma grana pro seu pai quando ele tava falido. Outras, ele é aquele primo que é racista e homofóbico, mas-é-um-amor-de-pessoa.
E aí que tá: as pessoas da nossa geração não estão dispostas a participar disso. A gente tá de saco cheio de preservar relações tóxicas por causa dos pudores ou pendências de outrem. Nós cortamos o laço mesmo, porque a gente não precisa disso pra viver. Não vamos telefonar, não vamos na festinha de aniversário e com alegria perderemos aquela oportunidade única de visitar o Tio Francis. Não queremos casamentos falidos pra manter aparências, amizades sanguessugas, relações familiares que te consomem e te fazem sentir a criatura mais inútil do planeta. Precisamos, sim, de gente que nos ama, que nos ampara, que aceita as nossas maluquices, ambições e júbilo ao compartilhar um post de gatinhos vestidos como personagens de Game of Thrones.
Aquele papo de que relacionamentos exigem sacrifícios, de que o amor dói mesmo, que relações são difíceis e exigentes, pra gente não tá mais colando. O que é querido, o que eu prezo e quero perto de mim, não é pra machucar. Não é pra doer nem pra me fazer sofrer, é pra ser gostoso, é pra dar aconchego, harmonia e tesão. A gente curte o amor-pássaro do Rubem Alves, que é livre para voar, mas daí pra ele cagar periodicamente na nossa cabeça já não dá.
As nossas relações, pra quem vem de outro background (que carrega consigo outros costumes e hábitos), podem parecer vazias e apenas virtuais, mas não são. Nós encontramos pessoas queridas com tanta frequência como se fazia antigamente? Talvez sim, talvez não. Eu vejo meus amigos mais próximos uma vez por semana. Outros, nunca vi pessoalmente, conheço só pela internet. O que posso dizer é que esses laços são muito intensamente vividos e aproveitados; o nosso tempo (que é raro, porque a gente trabalha pra cacete num sistema falsamente meritocrático e contraprodutivo inventado por pessoas como o Tio Francis) é gasto naquilo que realmente nos interessa e com pessoas que de fato nos fazem sentir bem.
A gente também não se sente culpado por ter relações curtas. Qual o problema de transar com aquele cara do Tinder e nunca mais ligar, se vocês só queriam sexo mesmo? Ou aquela amizade de verão maravilhosa, que foi boa enquanto durou? Pra que tentar ficar achando significado e profundidade em lugares que não precisam disso? A gente já superou o carpe diem, o neoqeav, o nada-acontece-por-acaso e estamos em paz com a noção de que relações humanas não duram — e nem precisam durar — para sempre. E isso não significa que somos frios, afinal a gente faz vaquinha virtual pra financiar o projeto artístico, intercâmbio e cirurgia do cachorro de gente que nem conhecemos.
Portanto, caros antecessores e precedentes, acho legal avaliar e compreender que fazer as coisas de um jeito diferente do de vocês (e isso vale pra relações humanas, formação, empregos e modus operandi no geral) não significa fazer errado. Pode ser que a gente queira abraçar o mundo, salvar todos os golfinhos e criar o milésimo grupo de apoio para algum problema (sério, vocês já viram quantos a gente faz?). Mas talvez a motivação pra falar tão mal da nossa geração seja, bem lá no fundo, o desejo de ter a nossa fluidez.
Formada em publicidade e ainda não sabe o que fazer com isso.
Some years ago, right after we caught our breath from the financial crisis, I took my then-young-teenaged son to dinner to celebrate the end of the school year. He got to choose the restaurant; naturally, he chose a steak house.
As we were being seated, I recognized Dick Fuld. The Dick Fuld. Former CEO of Lehman Brothers, whom I had covered as a research analyst at Bernstein. I stopped, said hello, met his daughter, and introduced my son.
As we walked to our table, I thought, “Great. A teaching moment.”
When we sat, I said, “Honey, that was Dick Fuld and he…”
My son cut me off…with energy. “You don’t have to tell me who Dick Fuld is. I know who Dick Fuld is! He shouldn’t be at dinner; he should be in jail!!” He went on and on and on…..about the financial crisis, about the collapse of Lehman Brothers, about his views on greed on Wall Street. I kid you not. These were not topics we were discussing at home, though we had certainly been living the financial crisis. I thought he was too young to “get it” or have any interest.
And, let’s just say, his views on Wall Street were not positive.
Uh-oh, I thought.
I said to him, “Honey, you know I work on Wall Street, don’t you?”
His reply: “I know. I Googled you. You’re one of the good guys.”
Whew!
Fast forward to this summer. My daughter is interning for me: she’s doing a bit of research, grabbing coffee for the team, watching us build product. We’re all in an office the size of a larger-than-average broom closet: one in which I can’t get out of my chair without ramming the back of our lead designer.
At one point, as we were heading home one day, I said to her, “Funny, isn’t it? I used to have an office many times the size of this for just me, I had a driver, I had a jet, I had fresh-baked cookies.”
Her response: “So what? Sure, the money’s not as good, but look at how much happier you are, Mom, than in your last job. You’re creating something and you’re trying to make a difference in the lives of women.”
I promise you, I’m not making this up. Not a word of it. I was floored.
I’ve written about the handful of smart things I did as working mom. One thought to add: Why should we work as though our children are watching?
Because they are.
Even if we don’t think they are, they are.
Sallie Krawcheck is the Chair of Ellevate Network and Ellevate Asset Management. Ellevate Network is a professional woman’s network, operating across industries and around the world. Both businesses are committed to the full economic and financial engagement of women.
Originally published at www.linkedin.com on August 3, 2015.
Ellevate Network, Ellevate Asset Management...past head of Merrill Lynch & Smith Barney ....past research analyst.....mom....crazed UNC basketball fan
Sharing our ideas and experiences
According to the Harvard Business Review, 41% of women working in tech eventually end up leaving the field (compared to just 17% of men), and I can understand why…
I first learned to code at age 16, and am now in my 30s. I have a math PhD from Duke. I still remember my pride in a “knight’s tour” algorithm that I wrote in C++ in high school; the awesome mind warp of an interpreter that can interpret itself (a Scheme course my first semester of college); my fascination with numerous types of matrix factorizations in C in grad school; and my excitement about relational databases and web scrapers in my first real job.
Over a decade after I first learned to program, I still loved algorithms, but felt alienated and depressed by tech culture. While at a company that was a particularly poor culture fit, I was so unhappy that I hired a career counselor to discuss alternative career paths. Leaving tech would have been devastating, but staying was tough.
I’m not the stereotypical male programmer in his early 20s looking to “work hard, play hard”. I do work hard, but I’d rather wake up early than stay up late, and I was already thinking ahead to when my husband and I would need to coordinate our schedules with daycare drop-offs and pick-ups. Kegerators and ping pong tables don’t appeal to me. I’m not aggressive enough to thrive in a combative work environment. Talking to other female friends working in tech, I know that I’m not alone in my frustrations.
When researcher Kieran Snyder interviewed 716 women who left tech after an average tenure of 7 years, almost all of them said they liked the work itself, but cited discriminatory environments as their main reason for leaving. In NSF-funded research, Nadya Fouad surveyed 5,300 women who had earned engineering degrees (of all types) over the last 50 years, and only 38% of them are still working as engineers. Fouad summarized her findings on why they leave with “It’s the climate, stupid!”
This is a huge, unnecessary, and expensive loss of talent in a field facing a supposed talent shortage. Given that tech is currently one of the major drivers of the US economy, this impacts everyone. Any tech company struggling to hire and retain as many employees as they need should particularly care about addressing this problem.

Nobody wants to think of themselves as being sexist. However, a number of studies have shown that identical job applications or resumes are evaluated differently based on whether they are labeled with a male or female name. When men and women read identical scripts containing entrepreneurial pitches or salary negotiations, they are evaluated differently. Both men and women have been shown to have these biases. These biases occur unconsciously and without intention or malice.
Here is a sampling of just a few of the studies on unconscious gender bias:
Most concerningly, a study from Yale researchers shows that perceiving yourself as objective is actually correlated with showing even more bias. The mere desire to not be biased is not enough to overcome decades of cultural conditioning and can even lend more credence to post-hoc justifications. Acknowledging that you have biases that conflict with your values does not make you a bad person. It’s a natural result of our culture. The important thing is to find ways to eliminate them. Blindly believing your company is a meritocracy not only does not make it so, but will actually make it even harder to address implicit bias.
Bias is typically justified post-hoc. Our initial subconscious impression of the female applicant is negative, and then we find logical reasons to justify it. For instance, in the above study by Yale researchers if the male applicant for police chief had more street smarts and the female applicant had more formal education, evaluators decided that street smarts were the most important trait, and if the names were reversed, evaluators decided that formal education was the most important trait.

Because of the high attrition rate for women working in tech, teaching more girls and women to code is not enough to solve this problem. Because of the above well-documented differences in how men and women are perceived, training women to negotiate better and be more assertive is also not enough to solve this problem. Female voices are perceived as less logical and less persuasive than male voices. Women are perceived negatively for being too assertive. If tech culture is going to change, everyone needs to change, especially men and most especially leaders.
The professional and emotional costs to women for speaking out about discrimination can be large (in terms of retaliation, being perceived as less employable or difficult to work with, or companies then seeking to portray them as poor performers). I know a number of female software engineers who will privately share stories of sexism with trusted friends that we are not willing to share publicly because of the risk. This is why it is important to proactively address this issue. There is more than enough published research and personal stories from those who have chosen to publicly share to confirm that this is a widespread issue in the tech industry.
Change is possible. Although these are schools and not tech companies, Harvey Mudd and Harvard Business School provide inspiring case studies. Strong leaders at both schools enacted sweeping changes to address previously male-centric cultures. Harvey Mudd has raised the percentage of computer science majors that are women to 40% (the national average is 18%). The top 5% of Harvard Business School graduates rose from being approximately 20% women to closer to 40% and the GPA gap between men and women closed, all within one year of making a number of comprehensive, structural changes.

These recommendations on what companies could do to improve their cultures are based on a mix of research and personal experience. My goal is to have a positive focus, and I would love it if you walked away with at least one concrete goal for making constructive change at your company.
It is very common at tech start-ups to promote talented engineers to management without providing them with any management training or oversight, particularly at rapidly growing companies where existing leadership is stretched thin. These new managers are often not aware of any of the research on motivation, human psychology, or bias. Untrained, unsupervised managers cause more harm to women than men, although regardless, all employees would benefit from new managers receiving training, mentorship, and supervision.
In the Yale study mentioned above regarding applicants for police chief, getting participants to formalize their hiring criteria before they looked at applications (i.e. deciding if formal education or street smarts was more important) reduced bias. I was once on a team where the hiring criteria were amorphous and where the manager frequently overrode majority votes by the team because of “gut feeling”. It seemed like unconscious bias played a large role in decisions, but because of our haphazard approach to hiring, there was no way of truly knowing.
Leadership sets the values and culture for a company, so the onus is on them to make it clear that they value diversity. Younger engineers and managers will follow their perceptions of what executives value. In the cases of positive change at Harvey Mudd and Harvard Business School, leadership at the top was spearheading these initiatives. Intel is going to begin tying executives’ compensation to whether they achieve diversity goals on their teams. As Kelly Shuster, director for the Denver chapter of Women Who Code has pointed out, leaders have to get rid of employees who engage in sexist or racist behavior. Otherwise, the company is at risk of losing talented employees, and is sending a message to all employees that discrimination is okay.
There is a well-documented confidence gap between men and women. Don’t rely on people nominating themselves for promotions or to get the most interesting projects, since women are less likely to put themselves forward. Google relies on employees nominating themselves for promotions and data revealed that women were much less likely to do so (and thus much less likely to receive promotions). When senior women began hosting workshops encouraging women to nominate themselves, the number of women at Google receiving promotions increased. Groups are more likely to pick male leaders because of their over-confidence, compared to more qualified women who are less confident. Don’t rely heavily on self-evaluations in performance scoring. Women perceive their abilities as being worse than they are, whereas men have an inflated sense of their abilities.
Confirm that men and women with the same qualifications are earning the same amount and that they are receiving promotions and raises at similar rates (and if not, explore why). Make sure that gendered criticism (such as calling a woman strident or abrasive) is not used in performance reviews. The trend of tech companies releasing their diversity statistics is a good one, but given the high industry attrition rate for women, they should also start releasing their retention rates broken down by gender. I would like to see companies release statistics on the rates at which women are given promotions or raises compared to men, and how performance evaluation scores compare between men and women. By publicly sharing data, companies can hold themselves accountable and can track changes over time.
A culture that rewards facetime and encourages people to regularly stay late or eat dinner at the office puts employees with families at a disadvantage (particularly mothers), and research shows that working excess hours does not actually improve productivity in the long-term since workers begin to experience burn out after just a few weeks. Furthermore, when employees burn out and quit, the cost of recruiting and hiring a new employee is typically 20% of the annual salary for that position.
Stanford research studies document that women are more likely to dislike competitive environments compared to men and are more likely to select out of them, regardless of their ability. Given that women are perceived negatively for being too assertive, it is tougher for women to succeed in a highly aggressive environment as well. Men who speak up more than their peers are rewarded with 10% higher ratings, whereas women who speak up more are punished with 14% lower ratings. Creating a competitive culture where people must fight for their ideas makes it much tougher for women to succeed.
Over 10% of the 716 women who left tech in Kieran Snyder’s research left because of inadequate maternity leave. Several were pressured to return from leave early or to be on call while on leave. These women did not want to be stay-at-home-parents, they just wanted to recover after giving birth. Just as you would not pressure someone to return to work without recovery time after a major surgery, women need time to physically heal after delivering a baby. When Google increased paid maternity leave from 12 weeks to 18 weeks, the number of new moms who quit Google dropped by 50%.

There is a huge amount of research on unconscious racial bias, and tech companies need to address this issue. As Nichole Sanchez, VP of Social Impact at GitHub, describes, calls for diversity are often solely about adding more white women, which is deeply problematic. Racial bias adds another intersectional dimension to the discrimination that women of color experience. In interviews with 60 women of color who work in STEM research, 100% of them had experienced discrimination, and the particular negative stereotypes they faced differed depending on their race. A resume with a traditionally African-American sounding name is less likely to be called for an interview than the same resume with a traditionally white sounding name. I do not have the personal experience to speak about this topic and instead encourage you to read these blog posts and articles by and about tech workers of color on the challenges they’ve faced: Erica Baker (Slack engineer, former Google engineer), Justin Edmund (designer, Pinterest’s 7th employee), Aston Motes (Engineer, Dropbox’s 1st employee), and Angelica Coleman (developer advocate at Zendesk, formerly at Dropbox).

I’m currently teaching software development at all-women Hackbright Academy, a job that I love and that suits me perfectly. I want all women to have the opportunity (and I mean truly have the opportunity, without implicit or explicit discrimination) to learn how to program — knowing software development provides so many career and financial possibilities; it’s intellectually rewarding and fun; and being a creator is deeply satisfying. Although I know many women with frustrating experiences of sexism, I also know women who have found companies where they’re happily thriving. I’m glad for the attention tech’s diversity problem has been receiving and I am hopeful about continued change.
Thanks for review, edits, and discussion to: Jeremy Howard and Angie Chang.
hackbright instructor, math phd, software developer, @math_rachel
BY JON WESTENBERG
When you admire someone’s success, and tell them that their work has great meaning for you, the reaction of most people is to downplay your compliment.
There’s the standard response:
There’s the awkward line:
And then, there’s the insincerity of:
The same thing happens when people show their work. It’s always with caveats, with disclaimers and with phrases meant to distract you from the simple fact that they’re proud of themselves.
But we don’t need to play that game. When something we have worked on is good, and we know it’s good, and others say it’s good, there’s no reason to try and look humble, or to attempt to sidestep the praise. Because at the end of the day…
I think there’s two reasons that creatives and entrepreneurs dance the humble shuffle and hide their pride:

The first reason is that we’re conditioned to avoid and reject praise. This happens from a young age. Everyone is told that they shouldn’t seem arrogant or full of themselves. Bringing others down a peg or two is considered to be a good thing. How shitty is that?
We are all like that. Me, you, everybody. If you think you’re not, you need to work on being honest with yourself.
The effect of it is that when we finish work, no matter how good it is, even if it’s the single greatest accomplishment of our lives, we’re scared that others will want to cut us down or criticise us if we seem to happy with ourselves. We want to protect our egos by pre-empting negative reactions and distancing ourselves from what we’ve finished even as we try to entice others to experience what we’ve made.
So we send out our work and we say:
You know what we should be saying?

Here’s the second reason. We just don’t think that we should be the ones talking about what we’ve done. That’s for others to do.
We feel too awkward to talk about how well we think we did.
That’s why we pretend to be no big deal, and when we stand up to accept our Oscar-MTV-Startup awards we claim that we are humbled to be there, and all the credit really goes to our managers or boyfriends or that guy who makes our bagels in the morning.
But do you know what the problem is? In the end, there’s only one person who can really communicate about you and your accomplishments. And that’s you.
If you want to wait for others to talk about your work and sing the praises of what you’ve put out there into the black hole of the internet, you can go right ahead. But you’re missing out on your chance to share your journey.
Oh, and you’ll be waiting a long time.

It really is time we let go of both sincere and insincere modesty. I know that over the last few months I have worked harder than ever before to become a writer and to hone my craft. That hard work hasn’t happened at a desk, 9–5. It’s happened on the train home at the end of the day. I write half of my posts on my phone when I’m heading to the gym at 6 in the morning.
So when I finish a piece, when I finally drag it kicking and screaming over the word count, I don’t distance myself from it. I tell my closest friends, look at this thing that I managed to pull out of myself when it was late at night and I could have been doing a dozen other things.
I’m proud of my writing. I really am. And you should be proud too. Proud of your work, your company, your app, your brand new song, that 5 page film script with the three flashbacks and the dream sequences. You should be proud of the lines of code you slaved over and the UI that nobody is going to notice because it’s so bloody perfect.


Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

“Jack of all trades. Master of none.”
The warning against being a generalist has persisted for hundreds of years in dozens of languages.
“Equipped with knives all over, yet none is sharp,” warned people in China. In Estonia, it went, “Nine trades, the tenth one — hunger.”
Yet, many of the most impactful individuals — both contemporary and historical — have been generalists: Elon Musk, Steve Jobs, Arianna Huffington, Ben Franklin, Leonardo Da Vinci,and Marie Curie.
Are these legends just genius anomalies? Or are they models that we can all learn from?
My research over the past year shows that the latter is true. There is a surprisingly strong link between diversity of relationships / knowledge(being a generalist) and career success.
Many people fail to become successful generalists because schools and society tend to encourage focus on a single expertise. As a result, few ever develop the necessary skillset.
The good news is that with practice and some of the tools in this article, anyone can become a successful generalist.

Meeting new people outside of our current circles and learning outside of our expertise is hard and hard to justify.
For example, if you’re a marketing executive, it’s much easier to justify reading the latest marketing book than it is to read a classic book on evolutionary biology. Yet, reading that biology book might give you a completely novel idea that no one else in your field has.
In confronting this challenge, we must embrace the paradox of the usefulness of useless knowledge as poignantly shared by Nobel Laureate, Richard Feynman:
Here are six concrete strategies from some of the world’s top generalists (who also happen to be millionaire and billionaire entrepreneurs) to help you efficiently and systematically explore new areas…

Ray Dalio is the founder of the largest hedge fund in the world, Bridgewater Associates, which has $169+ billion under management. His approach is based on a set of fundamental principles, which he explains in a 117-page treatise, which I summarized.
Core to Dalio’s philosophy is becoming an independent thinker rather than focusing on what you are taught by others:
In other words, according to Dalio, the key to being a successful investor is finding when the consensus is wrong and having an independent opinion that is right.
The same principle holds true in other fields such as venture capital. Famous technology investor, Peter Thiel, selects the founders he backs in part by asking them what they strongly believe that no one else does.
According to Dalio, the first step to becoming an independent thinker is to understand reality deeply. In order to do this early in his career, he ordered all the annual reports of Fortune 500 companies and worked his way through the most interesting ones and formed opinions.
Warren Buffett took a similar approach. According to the book, Outsiders, he has kept up a habit of reading 3 annual reports a day for his entire career. When asked how to get smarter, Buffett once held up stacks of paper and said, “Read 500 pages like this every day. That’s how knowledge builds up, like compound interest.”
Charlie Munger’s success as one of the world’s top investors and Warren Buffett’s longtime business partner did not come from having a laser-like focus on investment theory. Rather, he studied widely and deeply in many fields, including microeconomics, psychology, law, mathematics, biology, and engineering, and applied insights from these fields to investing.
Munger’s rules and quotes are excerpted from various talks that he’s given, which are featured in his book, Poor Charlie’s Almanack.



Charlie Munger famously stated, “In my whole life, I have known no wise people (over a broad subject matter area) who didn’t read all the time — none.” Emerson Spartz, 28, embodies this ideal.
He dropped out of school at 12, taught himself to speed read, and created his own wide-ranging curriculum. Spartz has now read thousands of books, for awhile even averaging a book per day.
Spartz’s broad reading brought him to the conclusion that, “There are no original ideas. There are just people who aren’t widely read enough to realize their ideas aren’t original.”
Over time, Spartz developed theories on how to make sites go viral. He successfully tested those theories on Facebook Pages; many of which acquired millions of fans. He then progressed to testing his theories with media properties. Today, his company, Spartz Media, is a network of sites (like Dose.com and OMG Facts) with 45+ million visitors per month.
Spartz’s company uses a research and repurpose strategy. A proprietary algorithm finds trending articles with certain qualities and repurposes them for the site’s unique audience.
“In my experience,” Spartz says, “it is much faster and less risky to read more widely and repurpose what is already working, or has worked somewhere else, than to attempt to come up with an idea that you think is original but actually isn’t.”
While most people in our society put their attention into what’s new andpopular, Jason Duff, an Ohio entrepreneur, does the exact opposite. In his real estate endeavors, this means finding historic real estate properties that are undervalued and restoring them, rather than building new properties.
This approach has helped him create hundreds of jobs in his community and build several multimillion dollar businesses.
Duff’s key insight is that wisdom — and value — can be found in the old. The Lindy Effect demonstrates this idea; for every additional day an idea or technology survives, it becomes more likely it will survive longer into the future.
While we tend to assume the newest releases and latest editions will be the most relevant, seeking out classic ideas that have stood the test of time often hold the most unique insights.
Famous science fiction author, William Gibson, once said, “The future is already here — it’s just not very evenly distributed.”
Ryan Simonetti, co-founder of Convene, has built a team of 150+ employees through a unique approach of finding clues of the future in today’s world:
“As an entrepreneur, I’ve found a powerful approach to finding clues is looking for ‘edge cases’ (i.e., extreme users and early adopters of new technology) and then deeply listening to those users in order to understand their unmet needs,” Simonetti says.
“The toughest thing for anybody is to understand what it means to be truly objective and look at the world from someone else’s perspective. In my experience, the best way to do this is the ‘Ask, Observe, Engage’ approach, which is an integral part of design thinking:
Bottom line: look for those edge case users that will define your business and learn deeply from them by asking questions of, observing, and engaging them.
Arianna Huffington started her career as an author, became a journalist, ran for governor, and ultimately founded one of the fastest growing media companies in history, The Huffington Post.
Changing careers and exploring new ideas means letting go of all the time you invested going down one path. It means reinventing your identity, building new relationships, and letting go of limiting beliefs.
When I asked what allowed her to be be so radically open, she related it back to one concept — a “life audit” she did at age 40.
The exercise revealed to Huffington that many of the goals she had committed to in her head (learning German, becoming a good skier, etc.) simply weren’t getting done. Rather than continuing to stress over the goals she wasn’t achieving, she instead chose to consciously remove them from her list and focus on the goals that mattered most to her. This gave her more energy to pursue life-changing business opportunities on the horizon.
Research backs this up. Every day, each of us wastes valuable brainpower holding on to commitments we’ve made that are no longer realistic or important.
If you’ve ever killed yourself trying to meet an unreasonable deadline or shown up ridiculously late to a meeting instead of just rescheduling, you know exactly how much of an energy suck these inessential commitments can be.
“One of the best ways to open up your life to new possibilities is… not by adding new things, but by dropping things that no longer serve you,” Huffington said. “This not only means removing things you’re doing now, but shouldn’t be. It also means removing things from your mind that you think you should be doing, but realistically never will.”

So, expert or generalist?
Perhaps it’s not one or the other.
It’s time for a new model; one that considers the benefits of being a specialist and a generalist.
Perhaps, the winning formula is being what Orit Gadiesh, chairman of Bain (a multi-billion dollar consulting company) calls an ‘expert-generalist’. Gadiesh explains it like this:
“An expert-generalist is someone who has the ability and curiosity to master and collect expertise in many different disciplines, industries, skills, capabilities, countries, and topics and then:
The approach has differentiated Bain from its competitors and has propelled Gadiesh’s career.
Gadiesh goes wide by reading 100+ books a year including novels [in the language of the country she’s visiting] and books on physics, mathematics, history, biographies, and art.
Then, she goes deep by applying “cold, hard intellectual discipline”, and ruthlessly letting go of theories that she has fallen in love with, but that don’t hold up when examined with data.

The traditional narrative is that being a generalist is something you could only do decades or hundreds of years ago when business and science were less developed; when a single scientist could serendipitously discover an amazing medicine like penicillin growing around mold and usher in an era of life-saving antibiotics.
This narrative is misleading to the point of being wrong.
Yes, scientific discoveries require larger teams on average, according to research by Brian Uzzi, a professor at the Northwestern University Kellogg School of Management, who analyzed 26+ million scientific papers going back hundreds of years.
But the reason that teams are successful is not just because of more resources and deeper expertise; it’s also because those team members come from different disciplines and are able to cross-fertilize their insights into atypical, breakthrough combinations.
According to the discipline of scientometrics, the amount of academic research is doubling every 9 years and the number disciplines is growing exponentially. The same is true for the number of business industries.
What does this all mean?
As more business industries and scientific disciplines emerge, there are more opportunities to create breakthrough ideas by combining fields in atypical ways. We literally have the world’s knowledge at our finger tips.
It’s a good time to be an expert-generalist.
* * * * *
As a resource for this article, I put together a 13-page report you can download at no cost. It summarizes Ray Dalio’s very unique approaching to coming up with independent opinions that are true. I put it together because I didn’t see another summary anywhere else that was easy to comprehend or apply.
* * * * *
Other Articles In My Generalist Series
* * * *
Special thanks to Ian Chew and Sheena Lindahl who volunteered their time to edit this article and do research.
* * * *
Disclosure: Some of the contributors featured in this article are members ofSeminal, a selective council that distills research-backed, actionable insights from world-class entrepreneurs and leaders.
* * * * *
Michael Simmons writes at MichaelDSimmons.com and is co-founder of Empact. To receive more articles like this one, visit his blog.
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
O caso é verídico, eu estava presente e posso confirmar. Em uma reunião entre os gestores de uma determinada empresa um dos sócios colocou na mesa uma sugestão:
- Vamos comprar uma enorme piroca de pelúcia.
Os demais não levaram muito a sério, afinal aquele que apresentou a ideia tinha o hábito de fazer sugestões divertidas, geralmente como uma forma bem humorada de crítica.
- Sério, vamos comprar uma pica de pelúcia. Uma enorme, assim, quase do tamanho de uma pessoa.- Sério mesmo?- Sim, e todo funcionário ao chegar vai bater uma foto abraçada com ela.- E pra quê?- Porque essa será nossa política: essa pica também é minha.
E faz sentido.
Um dos grandes problemas de se gerir uma operação é justamente a cultura do "a minha parte eu fiz" ou do "ah, mas isso aí não é comigo". Nada explica melhor essa cultura do que uma historinha que costumam contar no meio empresarial de São Paulo para "ajustar" os mais idealistas.
Tem um quê de sabedoria corporativa, não nego. Eu mesmo lidei com situações assim em São Paulo. Chegando em um novo emprego tive o desprazer de participar de uma reunião com umas 12 pessoas que passaram cerca de 2h discutindo de quem era a culpa por uma falha em uma campanha. Cansado levantei a mão e larguei "opa, a culpa é minha, podemos voltar a trabalhar?". Levei um belo esporro por ter "assumido" uma culpa que não podia ser minha afinal eu havia acabado de chegar. Oras, isso me parecia óbvio, claro que a culpa não era minha, eu queria mesmo era acabar com a discussão e mostrar o quanto aquele bate boca estava sendo improdutivo. E caro. Queria provar um ponto apenas. O interessante é que a maior parte das pessoas na reunião achou minha ação satisfatória, fingindo não ter percebido a alfinetada, ficando feliz por ter se livrado daquela "pica" mesmo.
Essa política precisa mudar. Todos precisam ser responsáveis pelo resultado final, todos precisam se preocupar em resolver, em entregar. Recentemente li Criatividade S/A, livro escrito por Edwin Catmull, um dos fundadores da Pixar. No livro ele fala de como as coisas melhoraram na empresa quando ele conseguiu implantar uma cultura onde todos eram responsáveis pelo controle de qualidade, onde qualquer um, independente da posição hierárquica, poderia apontar falhas ou fazer sugestões. Uma cultura pela qualidade, pela solução, pela responsabilidade com o todo. Detalhe, isso antes da Disney. E, falando em Disney, essa é uma cultura que eles prezam muito lá, vejam esse caso que tive conhecimento nessa semana, narrado por Claudio Nasajon.
E você, "escolhe a menor e senta em cima" ou acredita que "essa pica também é sua"?
Gostou do texto? Se gostou clica aí no "recommend", logo abaixo, e ajude mais pessoas a conhecê-lo.
A primeira publicação brasileira no Medium. Uma produção colaborativa de histórias e tendências para instigar você!


Yes, we get it. Google is not a conventional company. Larry Page said so in the first letter to shareholders when the company went public in 2004. And in case we missed this, Page repeated the quote today when announcing that Google, as it existed before August 10, 2015, would thereafter be known as Alphabet. Most of the stuff we interact with from Google — search, ads, YouTube, Gmail, and Android — will be part of just one of several companies under the Alphabet umbrella. At least that company will retain the familiar name.
The other companies — including Google X, Fiber, Calico, Nest, Sidewalk, and Google Ventures — will be fully owned, but separate, each with its own CEO and finances. In that sense, Google will be like Warren Buffett’s universally admired Berkshire Hathaway, a conglomeration of firms bound only by its ownership.
No one expects Alphabet to operate in the hands-off manner with which Buffett oversees his empire. Page, as CEO of the whole enchilada, will make sure that no executive in his domain will be chief enough to buck his philosophy of thinking big, exploiting technology at scale, and snubbing convention.
The question is, how separate will those companies be? The sense I get at Google is that this new structure is but an evolution of a process begun when Page stepped back from everyday operations last October and turned over much of Google’s product functions to his key lieutenant Sundar Pichai (who now becomes the CEO of Google lite). But Google…er, Alphabet, has seemingly crossed a line by structuring its divisions as separate companies in the Berkshire Hathaway model. At this point, neither Page or anyone else has indicated how thick that line is.
And that’s important. For many years, observers have expressed puzzlement at Google’s adventuresome propensity to generate divisions seemingly built on non sequiturs. What did self-driving cars have to do with search? Can you sell ads with smart thermostats? But when you scratched the surface, you could always figure how such ventures actually did promote Google’s core business. For instance, self-driving cars are huge consumers of Google Maps, and if people are liberated from driving they can do more web searching.
You could regard those crazy moonshots as wild blood injected into the core business, a perpetual antidote to corporate anemia. Because these divisions were part of Google itself, they could easily share their innovations with the part of the company that consumers used daily. When a team inside Google X invented a learning system informally called the Google Brain, it was soon moved to Google’s Knowledge division to enhance the search engine. Will that process be so easily repeated when Google X is run as a separate company? Or will the research division’s CEO be able to decide that his own firm would be better off selling the team to Microsoft or Yahoo? (I put the question to the company formerly known as Google, and didn’t get an answer. I’m not even sure that the answer to that has been determined.)
Or consider the role of Tony Fadell, the once and future CEO of Nest, the company Google bought for $3.2 billion in January 2014. Nest now becomes one of the separate Google companies, which may not make much difference because Google was letting Fadell run it as a quasi-independent duchy. But because Nest was part of the larger enterprise, Fadell had been tapped for broader responsibilities at Google, including the reinvention of Google Glass. Will he now relinquish that role to once again run Nest as a single entity? (Nest told me it wasn’t revealing any details in addition to Page’s statement.)
And what about Fiber, the division of Google devoted to installing and operating high-speed Internet? As I understand it, the mission of Fiber was not necessarily to make money from subscribers but to hasten a higher-speed infrastructure that would make Google’s core products more attractive and profitable. Will its new CEO now have to change direction in order to burnish his own bottom line? (Actually, that could be really interesting — if Fiber bulked up to be a major Internet provider rather than a burgeoning experiment, it might really jolt the incumbents.)
Obviously, Alphabet is not going full Berkshire Hathaway here. In Buffett’s world, an innovation made at Fruit of the Loom does not quickly get shared at Dairy Queen or Geico. But with Alphabet, Page is granting his divisions at least a measure of more autonomy — and an incentive to optimize for the one and not for the all. As Page writes, “Alphabet is about businesses prospering through strong leaders and independence.” It will be fascinating to see how this plays out.
Scrabble, anyone?
Follow Backchannel: Twitter | Facebook
I’m starting a tech hub at Medium.
Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

by Jeremy StewartIllustrations by Rob Hudak
If you’re like me at all, you love a good joke that’s related to web development. Here are a few I‘ve thought up over the years. Some are good, some are cheesy, but all are guaranteed to have you laughing at your computer terminal for hours.
Q: Why did the web designer drown?A: She didn’t know if she should float:left or float:right.
Q: Why was the web developer fired from his job?A: He was getting too Sassy.
Alternate version:
Q: Why was the web developer fired from her job?A: She did Less every day.
Q: What did the Southern web developer say when he found out his team stopped using version control?A: Y’all better Git!
Q: Why did the developer stay home from work?A: She had a code!
Q: How did the scrawny web developer put on some muscle?A: He started using flexbox (with float fallbacks for older versions of IE).
Q: Why was the JavaScript reality show cancelled after only one episode?A: People thought it seemed scripted.
Q: How can you tell that a web developer is working?A: You can hear him Grunting!
A junior developer panicked when he realized he didn’t know how to initiate a secure shell session to a remote machine. As he became more upset and his voice grew louder, his boss — the senior developer — took notice and tried to quiet him down. With his finger pressed to the young developers lips, the senior developer calmly whispered, “SSH.”
Q: Why does no one like jokes about descriptions, keywords, or character encodings?A: They’re too ‘meta’.
Q: Why was the iOS developer always so sleepy?A: She wasn’t given any Java.
Update: Four great jokes submitted by Shawn Bailly:
Q: Why did the IP cross the subnet?A: Because the NAT said to!
Q: Why couldn’t the variable enter the JavaScript store?A: It was (Closured())!
Q: Why was the class upset that its parent died?A: Because it wouldn’t be getting the inheritance!
Q: Why did the class attend the gay pride parade?A: It supported polymorphism.
Wonderful joke by @sharonlin:
Q: Why don’t web developers get along with others?A: They’re too MEAN.

Do you have a funny web development joke of your own? Comment it on this article or submit a pull request here!
Developer, dog owner, design lover. Full stack developer, haiku writer. I build responsive, accessible websites.

Few things in life are constant: death, taxes, and strangers asking “So what do you do?” within a minute of a handshake.
As a UX designer, I’ve had a lot of practice over the years trying to nail down my answer.
Here’s what I’ve come up with:
It’s my job to be inside a user’s brain. I need to look at design from the mindspace of a user (actually, lots of users) and squash potential problems or confusion.
This never-ending process requires keeping UX present before, during, and after the build is complete. It’s always a challenge to act with the user in mind — influences like due dates and bottom lines sometimes cloud the way.
To help keep your product on the right path, I’ve assembled a list of 5 UX principles I use to guide my design process. Understanding how and why to make UX decisions goes a long way in explaining things to others on the team, which goes an even longer way in getting said UX decisions into the final product.
Good design is easy to digest — the brain shouldn’t have to expend a ton of energy to figure out what the heck it’s looking at. With any luck, people will just “get it” without needing a 6-section explanation.
This goes beyond clear, easy-to-read copy. People sometimes need guidance to make decisions, so a menu with a list of 12 inline items may seem daunting. Organizing with some hierarchy (size, color, icons) can help highlight the more common choices, which allows someone to find what they’re looking for faster.
Another good example of digestible design is the new user guide, often presented as staggered tips that a person can process one at a time. But imagine the opposite, hitting a brand-new user with a whole stack of instructions, removed from the context of the product. No one likes a confusing surprise.
Consider all the decisions you’re asking someone to make with your product to get to the bottom of the funnel. The brain has a limited amount of cognitive resources during the day — using them up needlessly is rude.
Good design is honest. Aside from understanding the words in your value prop, you need the user to understand the actual value. Being coy or unclear about your product isn’t going to win any fans.
Related to value, pricing is an area where clarity is everything. Users aren’t going to click “Buy now” if they can’t figure out what you’re asking them to pay. While shady “free trials” that switch to auto-billing might be the norm, I doubt they’re winning any popularity contests.
This may sound cheesy, but a good plan is to simply follow the Golden Rule. Explain things like you’d want them explained to you. Make things as clear as you can. You know what you’d expect out of the products you choose to use, so don’t you dare build something less.
Good design is easy to trust. Before asking someone to complete an action, make every effort to help them understand why the task is needed. Being honest and clear in explanations builds trust at each step, leading to increasingly easier conversions down the funnel.
Consider Uber (and Lyft, depending on which way you swing). They’ve made catching a ride so easy that a 100-year-old industry is now in chaos. The app saves your payment info, which you might not feel comfortable exchanging with a stranger, and facilitates a trustworthy, painless transaction.
Removing doubt will create a growingly invisible experience. As decisions require less and less resources, using the product becomes easier and more enjoyable.
Ground-breaking design is awesome, but design that converts is better. New frameworks and flashy plugins might look nice on Dribbble, but if no one is clicking the “buy” buttons, you’ve got a problem.
Platform guidelines exist for a reason. While it might seem that making your product look exactly the same from platform to platform is the main goal, be careful to pay respect to the sticky details of each OS. Using familiar patterns, icons, and presentational styles is a great way to look native, even if you’re not.
Testing your solutions on actual devices goes a long way to ensuring things feel at home in each environment, which is where a tool like InVision shines. Pretending to be a user is easier when you’re not also having to pretend to use a device.
It’s been said that an idea isn’t enough anymore, that execution is what wins the war. Ironically, the more the team executes, the less the user has to. The more simplicity you can bring to a complex problem, the more delighted the user will be with your solution.
The ultimate delight is when someone forgets your product is a “product” — where it’s so useful that it doesn’t even read as a product anymore, just simply as some useful thing in a person’s life.
Building thoughtful products with clear intentions shows that you care, makes choices more comfortable, and leads to a better overall experience. And that’s important, because it’s been found that 68% of users giving up did so because they think you don’t care about them (which we know isn’t true!).
It’s easy to judge the user experience of your own product as long as you’re honest with yourself. Walk a mile in someone’s shoes, considering each action in your product from the brainspace of a tired, weary person. Would you click next?
Originally published at blog.invisionapp.com on July 8, 2015.
Prototyping, Collaboration & Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at http://www.InVisionApp.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

In this day and age, it can be hard to keep your child from being exposed to Elon Musk. Although you may do your best on the home front, they may inevitably stumble across a profile piece or news item on TV at a friend’s house or the computer at the school library. For that reason, it’s better to be prepared for your child’s eventual exposure to Elon Musk and to know how to respond to the questions you may be asked.
If your child asks why you’re not a billionaire like Elon Musk.
Tell your child that Elon Musk is highly unusual, as exemplified by his strange name. Tell your child that if your parents had named you Zambor Dweemoflux you might very well have become a billionaire too, but the fact of the matter is you’re stuck with Jim or Linda or Steve and a normal surname. This is a good opportunity to inform them that life isn’t always “fair” and not everyone gets a circus name like Elon Musk or Sepp Blatter that simply lends itself to being crazy wealthy.
If your child asks why Elon Musk seemingly generates amazing ideas on routine trips to the bathroom.
Tell your child that before he/she was born you too had a groundbreaking idea for a rainbow-powered washing machine. Let them know you were on the verge of getting a patent and becoming fabulously wealthy but then they happened. Tell them you selflessly let your dreams die so that you could focus on being a “hands on” parent because Harry Chapin’s Cat’s In The Cradle really freaked you out.
If your child asks why you’ve still failed to build a toolshed in the backyard while Elon Musk creates multiple corporations with the snap of his fingers.
Make sure your child understands that Elon Musk is an abomination created in human form — the love child of two ender-demons, Gorshak and Melkanor from the seventh circle of Hell. Tell him/her that he was born specifically to make everyone else in the world look like serial underachievers and feel bad about themselves. Tell your child that you are “The Chosen One” and that in order to prevent Elon Musk from his nefarious goal of spreading global unhappiness and dissatisfaction with everyone else’s relatively pathetic accomplishments they must never again acknowledge the demon-spawn’s profane victories.
If that doesn’t work, take away your child’s iPad until they stop bringing his name up.
This originally appeared on banterist.com
I self-identify as Brian Sack • www.briansack.com
I think when people are ultra-positive and have this incomparably sunny disposition toward the world, I get turned off. There’s a lot of stuff out there which attempts to make you feel inspired, but ends up leaving you feeling ashamed for being human. It would be easy for me to say:
“Everything happens for a reason!”
“Life is an adventure!”
“Love solves everything!”
“Happiness is a choice!”
These are easy words to say. Easy things to think. Easy, easy, easy. But, their meanings dry up the moment life happens.
I have spent far too many nights feeling ashamed that I couldn’t be more positive, happier, better, stronger. I’d look at these shiny people plastered with positivity and I’d wonder where I went wrong. Why was I so affected by the world? Why didn’t every day feel like an adventure? Don’t these people have to pay bills and have uncomfortable conversations and wake up sometimes with a headache and an axe to grind? Why was I seemingly the only one so deeply affected by the human experience?
I don’t want to be inspired anymore. Inspiration is cheap. It’s easy. It’s flowery. It’s drenched in promises no one can fulfill.
I want to feel understood. I want to feel heard. I want to feel like my weird and twisty and dark thoughts and fears and feelings are not unique to me. I don’t need someone negating my experience in order to provide me with sweet words fluffy as clouds — and just as transparent. I want gritty and real and raw and I’d rather see people fucking up than trying to act as if they never do.
I’m tired of people trying to inspire me to have a better, bigger, happier life. Let me exist. Let me fumble. Let me find the patch of light in the long tunnel of darkness. Let me figure out some shit on my own. I say we need less fake inspiration in this world and more realness. Less doomsday. Less fake happiness. More real shit. Less preaching. More storytelling. Less advice. More community.
I wish people would stop trying to perfect my life. Everybody is selling the magic pill to happiness. Why do I have to be so happy all the time? CAN I LIVE?
I want you to know that you don’t need to fix yourself if you’re not smiling every moment of the day. Sometimes you have very little to be grateful for and that’s okay. Sometimes it’s hard to muster up the energy to be happy with what you have when you want so much more from the world and yourself. That’s okay. It’s okay to be angry and to be kind of dark and weird and not a ball of positivity every moment. Sometimes it’s okay to be bored and to think that happiness is a bit boring because it kind of is. Sometimes it’s fine to be moody and sad and contemplative and to solve problems with a glass of wine or a pizza or some good sex I don’t even know but it’s okay to just not have it all figured out, to have no answers, to just be like, what is the point of anything.
It’s okay to feel like the ground is shaking beneath your feet. It’s okay because everything is temporary. You can lose your footing one day and be on top of the world the next. Things can change in a blink. Happiness is as fleeting as anything else. These fake salespeople who act like they have the cure to being human really grind me up. All they serve to do is make you feel ashamed for not having it all figured out. They sell your aspirational experience and bake shame into it.
Just promise me that the last thing you’ll do is be ashamed of where you’re at in your experience of being a human. Nothing good comes from shame. It’s about the lowest vibrational place you could be operating from. Avoid shame and anything or anyone that causes you shame. Get it all the hell out of your energy field. Shame is not going to motivate you. It’s going to drain you.
If there’s one promise you can make for yourself, let it be this: I will not let myself be ashamed of my unique experience of being human. Forget the positive bullshit: that promise, that mantra, that state of mind is what can really change lives. A person incapable of cowering to shame is a hero — considering all the many reasons our world gives us reasons to be ashamed. To forgo the feeling of shame is an act of radical resistance. Let yourself be. To truly be. What freedom.
If you enjoyed this post, feel free to Recommend it. You can also like my Facebook page or follow me on Twitter.
writer // jamievaron.com
This post was originally published on Rype.
“If only I could have learned Spanish a few years ago…”“If only I learned about investing when I was still in my early twenties…”
If only.
For many of us, there are more things we want to learn than we have time.
As information becomes more readily accesible online, the number of things we want to learn is only continuing to increase. And the only variable we can control is the amount of time we spend learning them.
Shortening the learning curve is a topic that’s been studied for many years, and this guide will cover the fundamental core principles of learning faster. You’d be able to leverage these principles to push yourself to learn faster in any topics including languages, business, musical instruments, and more.
Why reinvent a wheel that’s already been created?
The common tendency we all have when learning something new is trying to master it alone, underestimating the amount of time and effort that can be saved by getting help from someone who’s learnt it.
Think back to a time when you first learned how to speak a new language or a new skill.
You probably had a steep learning curve initially, but after a few years or even months of experimenting and making mistakes, you could design a shortcut to help a friend avoid those same mistakes you made early on.
In order to achieve mastery faster, our first step should be to consult the top players in the field, and model the path they have already carved out for us.
As Tony Robbins puts it:
In this day and age, it’s possible to retrieve almost any solution that’s out there in the form of books, blogs, training videos, consultants, someone in our network — the list goes on.
The next step to hacking the learning curve is to deconstruct the skill into its basic, fundamental components. Break down the parts and find the most important things to practice first.
This is in reference to the popularized Pareto’s Principle, where the goal is to generate 80% of results putting in 20% of the effort.

It turns out that this concept can apply to almost anything in life, including:
Here’s the Pareto graph in a different visual format.

Embracing this way of thinking only goes to show that very few things actually make a difference in any aspect of our lives, including learning.
Our goal then, should be to separate the 20% of our learning materials that will give us 80% of the result.
As it turns out, fast-learning experts have already embraced this ideology, and have provided some concrete examples on how to do this effectively.
In his Ted Talk, Josh Kaufman believes that you don’t need 10,000 hours in order to master a skill. As Kaufman elaborates, the key is to embrace the first 20 hours, and learn the most important subset skills within that time frame to get the maximum amount of impact.
Related topic to learn: Parkinson’s Law
For example:
Multi-tasking is a guilty pleasure we’ve all developed in the age of constant notifications and mobile applications. From checking our emails every ten minutes, to scrolling through our instagram feed, to co-workers coming by our desk for a “five-minute break.”
However, multi-tasking can be one of the biggest hurdles preventing us from learning faster.
Think about your own computer.
When you have 20+ different tabs open on your browser, your computer begins to slow down and it takes longer to process every action afterwards.
Studies have shown that when an individual gets distracted, it takes an average of 25 minutes to return to the task at hand.
What’s more important to note, is that a study done by the University of California, Irvine, found that a co-worker gets only 11 minutes before they’re distracted.
The same thing applies to our long-term focus. Many of us aren’t able to dedicate the 6–12+ months it takes to learn a skill because of the countless new projects, ideas, or hobbies that come our way.
And when we decide to shift our focus towards a new distraction, it’s much more difficult to find the same passion and drive to focus on the previous skill.
Once you have deconstructed the subset skills that will give you the maximum amount of results, focus solely on improving those skills and avoid learning anything else until you’ve mastered them.
This is the part where most of us struggle, and what many of us don’t want to hear.
YES! The key to mastering anything faster requires practice.
It requires frequency and persistence of performing the same skill over and over again, until you can do it subconsciously, without having to think about it.
The best performers in the world understand this “secret” to learn faster and become the best, yet rarely talk about its importance because of how unsexy it sounds.
Expert-level performance is primarily the result of expert-level practice, not due to innate talent.
As K. Anders. Ericsson, a scientific researcher from Florida State University, elaborates in his paper:
Recommended further reading:5 Research-Backed Methods to Master Any Skill Faster
In 1960, while they were still an unknown high school rock band, the Beatles went to Hamburg, Germany to play in the local clubs.
The group was underpaid. The acoustics were terrible. The audiences were unappreciative. So what did the Beatles get out of the Hamburg experience?
Non-stop hours of playing time, practice, and immediate feedback that forced them to get better.
That’s the key difference that rose The Beatles to the top, according to Macolm Gladwell in his book Outliers.
The band brothers didn’t just practice in their garage for the sake of practicing; they strived to get in front of a live audience that will provide them immediate criticism and constructive feedback.

As the Beatles grew in skill, audiences demanded more performances — more playing time. By 1962 they were playing eight hours per night, seven nights per week. By 1964, the year they burst on the international scene, the Beatles had played over 1,200 concerts together.
By way of comparison, most bands today don’t play 1,200 times in their entire career.
This is why at Rype, we’re solely focused on connecting you with native speaking tutors, who can give you immediate feedback during your lessons.
Unfortunately, many of us give up before or during what Seth Godin calls “The Dip.”

Godin describes that although it’s important to know when to quit, many potential winners don’t reach success because they quit before the dip.
According to Godin:
Psychologists have also studied what’s known as the transition cycle.
It’s the cycle of progress we go through whenever we’re experiencing change or a novel event, such as a tragic event or even learning something new.

As you can see, there’s a sense of euphoria we all experience when we begin something new. It’s why we’re so addicted to seeing notifications on social media, because dopamine gets released each time.
Once the Honeymoon phase fades away, we experience the “dip” and our progress begins to plateau or diminish. This is when most of us quit.
The reason why this is important to visualize is because if you can predict that a dip is coming whenever you’re learning anything new, it’s easier to fight through it.
More importantly, the dip is there because those persistent enough to stick it through can ride the upward wave that is at the end of the tunnel.
We made it! Here’s the summary of main points discussed in the ultimate guide to hacking the learning curve:
Thanks for reading until the end! I’d greatly appreciate it if you could share this with one person that will find this valuable, and feel free to hit the big fat recommend button in the bottom! ☺
If you enjoyed this article, you’ll also like reading:-5 Research-Backed Methods to Master Any Skill Faster-How to Double Your Reading Speed (Without Losing Comprehension)-How to Learn Any Language in Less Than 90 Days
Adventurer, Entrepreneur, Lifehacker. Follow me @heyseankim http://thegrowthlist.com
Thoughts on language hacking, learning faster, and traveling the globe. https://rypeapp.com

It’s a good time to be a software engineer. The industry is booming, demand for coders continues to grow, and salaries are at an all time high.
But how long will the party last?
Telegraph Operators of the 21st century
There are striking parallels between software engineers today and telegraph operators of the 19th century. By today’s standard, telegraph operators were technical lightweights: the bulk of the job consisted of receiving and transmitting messages sent over telegraph wires in Morse code, a monotonous albeit attention-heavy task. In contrast, contemporary software engineering generally involves a broad skill set that requires a deep understanding of complex systems and the ability to quickly master and re-master an accelerating parade of new software development frameworks.
However, during the mid 19th century, telegraph operators were well paid, well regarded, and considered quite technical relative to other mainstream professions. They had freedom to travel, and highly skilled operators flocked to large cities for the best jobs. As telegraphy took off and more and more cables were laid, the demand for telegraph operators skyrocketed. Standards for faster communication were developed, and operators had to keep up, memorizing increasingly efficient and complex systems of shorthand and communication protocols. Thomas Edison was a telegraph operator early in his career before settling into his true calling of stealing ideas from Nikola Tesla and empire-building. And unsurprisingly, as with contemporary software engineering, there were huge pay discrepancies between men and women.
Yet by the 20th century, the telephone had been invented, a technology that had the distinct advantage of not requiring an operator tasked with translation from code to natural language. By the 1920s, there were only a small fraction of the telegraph operators left compared to the 1890s.
The Downfall of Software Engineering
Fast forward a hundred years, and we seem to be in a similar situation with software engineers. While this profession is undeniably one of broader skill and intellectual ability than operating a telegraph, software engineers of today occupy a similar functional role to the telegraph operators of Edison’s era. The contemporary explosion of software parallels the 19th century rise of early networked communications. And just as the demand for telegraph operators scaled more or less linearly with the rise of the telegram, the demand for software engineers is currently scaling roughly linearly with the rise of software. Back then, every telegram had to be translated from Morse code to natural language by a human being. Today, every line of source code (sort of) has to be written by a human being.
To be sure, software is becoming more efficient, in that sophisticated frameworks have been developed so that fewer lines of source code have to be written, and advanced programming languages, compilers and interpreters have made the life of the programmer much easier than it had been in the 1980s or 1990s. But fundamentally, the process of writing software is still largely a human activity today.
That will change.
The current version of the profession is under pressure along two fronts. First, there are website-building tools like Weebly that allow anyone to build a website without writing software. Moreover, basic high level software engineering is getting more and more accessible, so that the delta between expressing clear ideas and being able to program is vanishing.
Second, on another front, software is getting better at facilitating the creation of software. While we are still a ways away from a fully automated piece of software that can write other pieces of software given some minimal, half-baked specification (i.e. do the job of a human software engineer), it is part way there. And more importantly, we do not need full artificial intelligence capabilities in order for role of the software engineer to shrink; instead, our software itself will just play a bigger and bigger role relative to humans in the creation of software. As an analogy, imagine semi-automated computer-assisted driving as a first step before fully self-driving cars.
While there will still be specialized software engineers and plenty of computer science-minded humans in the future, it seems inevitable given both of the above pressures that Software Engineering as a category will fade into historical obscurity as we approach the 22nd century.
But if you’re a software engineer (as I am), don’t despair — the critical thinking and technical skills will surely come in useful for future needs that arise. And if they don’t, well, keep some of that money saved up.
Interested in fairness, transparency, security, large data sets, social interactions.


*Note: this is my first piece of writing on Medium. I’m really happy to be here, I think this platform and community of writers/thinkers is fantastic. Hi everyone here.*
A few months ago I joined Patreon, a crowdfunding website sort of like a hardcore, ongoing-style Kickstarter that allows fans to support artists on a regular basis by pledging to pay a certain amount of money — a dollar, three dollars — every time content is put out: a piece of music, an article, a video, a page of comic book art. It’s basically a trusting subscription to my general art-channel, true new-school patronage.
Since March I’ve gathered about 5,500 patrons, and whenever I release something, the community pays me about $35,000, which I then use to pay for my office, my small staff, my rent, my life, and the technicians and collaborators who help me make the art. Earlier this summer I worked with a great artist, Avi Ofer, to create a short animation using a found iPhone voice memo recording of weird shit my writer husband says in his sleep. Three weeks ago I went into the recording studio to make a record of cover songs with my dad. The other day I did a piece of bizzaro living-statue performance art + book-drive at the New York Public Library, filmed it, and will put that film out as a piece of patreon content. Nobody’s complaining yet.
All this is honestly a huge relief after wondering if I was going to have to mount a kickstarter campaign every year to release music, cover the bills and support my generally spontaneous art-making addiction.
As many artists are finding out, Kickstarter campaigns are thrilling, but a lot of work. It’s a lot of concrete stuff to put in the mail; it’s a lot of admin energy spent NOT making art. With patreon, I think shit up, I do my work, I put the content/music/video up for free for everyone to enjoy, and I still get paid. It’s great. In a TED talk I gave called “The Art of Asking” a few years ago (and again in the book with the same title) I argued for a possible future where we don’t punish people for sharing content.
Taylor Swift may disagree, but I’m still committed to the fact that neither Spotify nor iTunes is going to be the salvation of the modern musician. There’s just no proof that those giants are committed to the survival of the smaller artists. The way I see it, we’re better off using the new tools of the internet to exchange with each other, rather than rely on a different set of middlemen who are possibly even less committed to the true sustainability of artists’ careers than the major labels were.
Anyway.

With my first child, at 39 years old.
Then I got this email through the “Ask Amanda” portal on my website.
Dearest Amanda,
I love you. I’ve been a faithful fan of yours for nearly a decade. We’ve met face to face a couple times. I gushed about how it was you who inspired me to take up song-writing and composing. I gave you a bracelet. It was all sincere and heartfelt.
Lately though, you’ve had me concerned.
The steady stream of new music we used to hear from you seems to be dwindling. And most of the new songs you’ve released lately are the simplistic, feel good, ukulele tunes. Which are fine. But I know that those songs take less time and effort to write, and they offer much less brain-heart stimulation than your older work. Frankly, they’re a little disappointing.
You have a reasonably sized, and growing fanbase. There will always be people to buy your merch, your albums, tickets to your shows. You didn’t NEED to join Patreon, but you did anyway. Then you announced your pregnancy, after years of saying you didn’t want to be a mom. It makes me worry about what’s going to happen next.
Child care is my day job. I babysit my two nephews. I know that young children need LOTS of attention. Especially if they are hyper-sensitive like you or me. Chances are you’ll pass that trait on to your kid. When you have this baby, either him/her/it will suffer, or your career will suffer. Your career will suffer a lot sooner if your pregnancy is as physically and emotionally draining as some of my friends’ pregnancies.
So, my question is, did you do this on purpose?
Are your patrons paying for new music, or are they paying for a new baby?
Is what you’re doing really fair to your fans? When will the music happen? The really gritty, complex, emotional good stuff? Am I missing something important? Some behind-the-scenes stuff? Is my perception of time skewed?
Bottom line is, I need answers before I can feel comfortable giving you more of the money that I earned with my own sweat and tears.
Love always,
Worried-but-Still-Devoted
(The subject of the email, btw, was: “Baby announcement right after joining Patreon?…Scam much?”)
Dear Worried,
First off, thank you for taking the time to even write this letter, and thank you for being a fan of my music all these years. I really do love and cherish every person who cares enough to communicate with me.
Secondly, thanks for confirming my deepest, most insecure, harrowing fears about motherhood and about how people will perceive me now that I have decided to breed!
Sarcasm aside, it really is a pregnant artist’s worst nightmare….well… at least it is THIS pregnant artist’s worst nightmare to get a letter like this.

I had my first abortion at 17, senior year of high school, and I’ve had two more in the 22 years since, for varying complicated reasons. Though I don’t regret them, those were some of the hardest, darkest decisions and days of my life.
I agree with you that, yes, some artists, male and female, do get kinda boring after they have babies. I won’t name names, but we’ve seen it happen, dude. A passionate, angst-filled songwriter who speaks to the very core of your black, black, suffering soul all of a sudden mellows into parenthood and domesticity and starts writing sappy songs about how everything is just about….y’know….acceptance, balance, meadows of wheat, and going with the flow man.
I would never begrudge these artists their magical balance. It’s hard enough, right?
Here’s the thing: I have come to believe we don’t have to suffer to make great art. But — still, to this day — I’ve had a hard time shaking the belief that suffering and isolation are critically important ingredients of art-making. And I’ve spent years weighing the pros and cons of having a child:
Backstory.
Where I grew up, there weren’t really any Mom Artists in my field of vision.There were nice housewives and welfare moms and bad-ass career women who worked in tall buildings in the city, but no artists in sight with babies. I simply did not equate “mother” with “artist”. Artists were another breed of being entirely, encountered almost exclusively through MTV and magazines. Usually wearing leather and tutus. Smoking.
Female musicians I encountered at an early age were never shown in videos or pictures with children in tow.

So no small wonder that as I approached my mid-thirties I entered a conflicted baby conundrum. If I had kids, would I turn into a boring, irrelevant, ignorable artist? Would I suddenly start writing songs about balance and shit? Would I have a sudden, terrifying, interest in the LUTE?
Would I become that annoying person who is so enthralled with their child that it’s impossible to have an intelligent conversation with them about art because they’d rather show you iPhone photos of their kid drooling out a spoonful of mashed carrots? This all made me really afraid.

It didn’t help matters that I’d built a traveling artist’s life that I loved, a well-oiled bohemian existence of couchsurfing and wonder and friends and improv in which I ran my own business and nobody could boss me around. Not to mention finding a supportive husband, Neil, who came equipped with three older children from another marriage, and who was just as happy to have more children as not.
It also didn’t help that some my own elders had begun saying irritating things like:

Which is, simply put, total bullshit. I’d learned, through my honest, intimate friendships with older people, that that simply was not true. Some of my mentors, artistic or not, were and are childless and the happiest, most fulfilled and enlightened people I know. I’ve learned from them that children do not innately make you happy and fulfilled: only you can do that, and to shuffle the responsibility onto a kid is actually a pretty cruel thing to do.
I watched my biological window start closing with a kind of paralytic dread, knowing that my womb and my soul were going to get crushed if I didn’t make a wholehearted decision one way or the other.
So, as you know, I went for it.
I wasn’t sure I was doing the right thing, or even that there was a right thing to do. I just did it, really hoping that the ol’ “jump and the net shall appear” cliché would manifest into a net and not a black hole.
And right now, at 36 weeks pregnant, all I can do is look at the female heroes who’ve preceded me and NOT descended into crappy boringness and pray to the holy trinity: Patti…Ani...Björki…hear my prayer. May I not get fucking boring.



So, dear Worried, you can see why your email stirred my darkest fears. I’m worried too. Probably more worried than you, because, I have to live with me all the time. And soon, I’ll have to live with this baby all the time. All while trying to not lose my art-self.
And, honestly, if this baby really winds up acting as a crippling, muse-killing, inspiration-sucker who saps the life out of my music rendering it totally bland…well…just tiptoe away, and leave me in my balanced, bland and happy misery.
As to your worry about whether or not this is a scam to crowdfund an infant: it can be confusing about where the lines of asking and taking should be drawn.
Let me tell you a story, one that I was going to include in “The Art of Asking” book (it wound up on the cutting room floor with 100,000 other words.)
Last year I stumbled across an open letter from Eisley, a female-fronted indie band from Texas, who’d tried to raise $100k on kickstarter so they could afford to accept a slot to support a far bigger band on tour.
Some people were confused, but I understood those logistics: when my band, The Dresden Dolls, were offered the opening slot for Nine Inch Nails in the summer of 2005, we chose to go into a financial hole in order to say yes. Our nightly paycheck covered about a third of what it cost to hire a crew and keep up with their tour buses, and we lost thousands of dollars. It’s a financial decision I’ve never regretted; I still meet fans, years later, who found me on that tour and have stuck with me ever since. Those things pay off.
Unfortunately Eisley didn’t reach their Kickstarter goal (so it went completely unfunded, as per the all-or-nothing Kickstarter model); but they went on the tour anyway and there was an angry backlash from their fans, who accused them of acting dishonestly. The fans asked: “if you didn’t need the money to begin with…why did you crowdfund??” Two of the members of the group were planning to bring their babies on tour, a fact that got dragged into the whole kerfuffle. Eisley defended themselves in an open letter, pointing out they’d managed to borrow the money from their families and their label, and they defended themselves specifically against people accusing them of tastelessly begging for money for baby formula, with the rebuttal that all their babies were breastfeeding…and thus weren’t planning to spend a dime of that crowdfunding money on baby formula.
But honestly? Why shouldn’t they buy baby formula with that money? It’s just there on the list of stuff they need to survive on tour, up there with everything else like gas, food, and capital to print t-shirts. It would be a like a diabetic singer promising her fans that she wasn’t going to spend her Kickstarter tour money on insulin.

When you’re a crowdfunding artist, it shouldn’t matter what your choices are as long as you’re delivering your side of the bargain — the art, the music. It shouldn’t matter whether you’re spending money on guitar picks, rent, printer paper, diapers, college loans, or the special brand of organic absinthe you use to find your late-night muse…. as long as art is making it out the other side and making your patrons happy.

The money we need to live is often indistinguishable from the money we need to make art. We need all sorts of stuff to make art with. MAYBE I EVEN NEED THIS BABY TO MAKE ART. Who knows?
As to your question about the timing of all this…no, it wasn’t schemed. I’ve been intending to use patreon since it was founded two years ago, because I love the idea of giving my fans a way to just pay me whenever I actually release content, instead of relying on a tired, outdated system of making one big-old fashioned record every couple of years. It feels way more sane, actually, as the impending unpredictability of parenthood approaches, to be able to work whenever I’m inspired and can make the time, instead of working on the forced, binge-and-purge, feast-or-famine cycle that I was stuck on when I was on a major label who didn’t care much about my quality of life.
I love the idea of getting paid for my work, when I work, by the people who want me to work. (Like you. Unless you stop wanting it. Which is fine. We’re in an open relationship. You can leave anytime. You can even come back. I’m fine with that.)
And if you already think that my output is getting too weird, or too dull: at least you don’t have to worry that the baby will turn me into one of those obnoxious songwriters who picks up a ukulele and…let’s just admit that I clearly jumped the ukulele shark years ago, and it was REALLY liberating. Though, honestly, if what you’re waiting around for is “the really gritty, complex, emotional good stuff…”…I’ll be really surprised if pushing a SMALL HUMAN OUT OF MY VAGINA doesn’t also rip my heart open and provide some really, profound new artistic perspectives. It might take me a second to recover from you know, childbirth, before I start writing again, but just give me a second. Don’t strangle me if I decide to go into labor without a notebook in my hand, jotting down inspirational lyrics.
In closing, dear Worried, if you really are worried about me, and you are with me in sensitive camaraderie, I humbly ask one thing:
please don’t terrify and jinx me right now.
Not when I’m just about to jump into this net that I’m praying will appear to catch me, my art, and this baby…all at the same time.
I love you,
Amanda
This piece was initially drafted for BBC’s “Fourthought”….you can hear me reading the first draft of it at the Hay Literary festival, live for a radio-studio audience in the BBC tent, here.
For the curious and/or supportive, here’s the link to my patreon: https://www.patreon.com/amandapalmer…if you’d like to join, friday will hopefully bring to your inbox the full backstory, gallery and time-lapse documentary of the library-statue project made by my longtime friend and collaborator, filmmaker Michael Pope. The Dad Record will be coming sometime this winter or spring. The patrons are going to help me determine how to release it.
And you’ve never heard my music, here’s a primer: http://amandalanda.amandapalmer.net/
Thank you for reading, I hope the discussion continues. And thanks, Medium.

*photo care of http://www.elegantlypregnantafrica.co.za/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/Ways-to-Help-Get-Pregnant.jpg?e96983
performer, writer, giver, taker, yeller, listener, love-lover, rule-hater…my book “THE ART OF ASKING” is out now: http://bit.ly/AFPweb.
I’m going to tell you a secret. There is a skill you can master which will guarantee everything you do will improve by at least 50%, but probably more like 100%, and more over time.
The best part about this skill is that it’s easy. Anyone can obtain it. You don’t need to have any particular natural talent. You don’t need any resources or teachers to master it. Once you have it and it becomes a part of your every operation you will begin to achieve at an accelerating rate. Your success will compound and your reputation will bring you more opportunities.
In the words of Morpheus, “Do you want to know what it is?”
That’s it. Read it again. Let it sink in.
What does it look like in practice? Responding to emails immediately, and never taking longer than 24 hours to do so. Showing up for everything you’ve said you’d show up for. Finishing everything you’ve said you’d finish and on time. When you say “I’ll read that book,” or “I’ll check out that website,” or “I’ll send my resume,” doing it. Immediately. If you can’t or won’t, don’t say those things. Every time you say you’ll do something and don’t, you’ve missed an opportunity to be better than the majority of your peers and build social capital.
In 90% of situations I’d take someone with coherent same-day responses to all communications who always delivers as promised and when promised over someone with mastery over just about any skill I can think of. I’m not alone in this. The desperate need for hard working, reliable people who communicate immediately all the time is off the charts.
If you make people wait for responses or wonder if you’ll ever follow through, you’ve cost them, even if only psychologically. People don’t tend to want to work with people who cost them — they want to work with people who they never have to expend any mental energy worrying about. They want to work with people who pleasantly surprise them by over-delivering.
Anyone can be the person who always follows through, always communicates, always delivers, and never leaves anyone hanging or in the dark. It’s only a matter of will and discipline.
Just get stuff done.
Isaac Morehouse is an entrepreneur, thinker, and communicator dedicated to the relentless pursuit of freedom. He is the founder and CEO of Praxis, an intensive one-year program combining real-world business experience with personal coaching, professional development projects, and interdisciplinary education for those who want more than college.
Originally published as “The Secret Skill That Beats All the Rest” at www.discoverpraxis.com on May 22, 2015.
Founder & CEO of Praxis
Where unconventional paths in entrepreneurship, personal development, and education meet.
At Appbot we get to see a lot of app icons while providing insights into app reviews.
In the past I have studied everything from app descriptions, to screenshots, to names, to countries. The one that has always really interested me most was app icons, but I never came up with an idea on how to really study what is effective.
Recently I stumbled across a cool Ruby library called Miro that extracts the dominant colors from an image.
Finding the dominant colors of apps shows some really interesting results.

Next I took the standard Web Colors (plus added yellow) and matched each web color to the closest. This grouped them into approximate names.
#02601e -> Green#a8120c -> Maroon#0c44de -> Blue#bdbfc0 -> Silver#f4b510 -> Yellow#717973 -> Gray#24721b -> Green#2d0d0e -> Black

Ignoring black, white & grey and taking the four most common colors I plotted them on the a ‘Color Wheel’.
The large size of the icon represents a larger percentage of the icon containing that color.


Plotting the top 200 free apps on the Color Wheel gives us:
We find large clusters of blue and red app icons, with a scattering of green. Pink and purple is under represented, with Snapchat owning yellow.

The top 200 paid iOS apps differ slightly from free.
Although there are similar groupings of blue, red and green to that of free, paid apps generally appear to use more colors with less having one color on the majority of the icon. This results on more of a spread and smaller icons on our Color Wheel.

Next I plotted the newest 100 iOS apps released to the App Store at the time of writing. The assumption was that this would give a more general representation of the overall store than the top charts.
This gave very similar results to that of the top paid charts.

All social networking apps are blue aren’t they? Twitter, Facebook etc.
Turns out the clusters are similar to all categories, if anything green is more represented.

Many games tend to have more complex icons than applications. This sees more of a spread in colors used.

It’s always felt that 90% of the apps in my OS X dock are blue, but is that the way it turns out in the top charts for Mac?
Turns out blue is similarly represented as it is on iOS, with also a lot of icon using red and green.

Graham from MacStories had a great suggestion on plotting the major color of an app against it’s chart position. I tried it for the top 100 free apps.
The larger the icon the higher up the charts the app was.

After posting the original copy of this article I had a bunch of requests for Google Play comparisons. My results are from the Australian store.
Looks pretty similar to me :)

For comparison to iOS.

This should really come down to your app, what it does and your target audience. However, maybe you fit into one of these three categories.
You like to follow the crowd, so go for blue or red.
Maybe you can go green, not the most popular, but you still aren’t being too risqué.
You laugh at the conformists, scoff at those who think they are different. Go for pink or purple and wear it like you own it.
I’m writing an eBook called “Secrets of the App Store”. Join my mailing list to download it first or follow me on Twitter @stuartkhall.
If you enjoyed this please help me out and recommend it. Why not check out Appbot while you are at it :)
Thanks for reading!
Stuart
Founder & Chief Bot @AppbotX
All about Growth Hacking, Mobile Marketing & Data Analytics

Tudo que eu queria era chegar logo em casa. A chuva fina que caia fez com acontecesse o de sempre: os taxis de São Paulo foram teleportados pro mesmo lugar pra onde vão os isqueiros e tampas de bic. Easy taxi! Nada. Nenhum taxista aceitou. 99. Nada. Merda. Impressionante, choveu os taxis daqui somem. Tenho certeza de que eles se reúnem todos em um barzinho pra esperar a chuva passar e rirem de nossas caras durante o processo.
Hum… tem o tal do Uber, né? Acho que tenho um voucher que recebi e… isso, R$ 20,00 de desconto. Aqui em São Paulo dá pra rodar umas duas quadras a 5km por hora. Vamos tentar. Instalando, cadastro e… é isso!
10 minutos e um carrão preto para na minha frente. Opa, que beleza, hein? Deve custar alguns anos de meu salário. Cheirinho de novo. Achei que só iria entrar em um carro desse em feirão de automóvel. Andar então…
- Boa tarde, senhor, muito bom poder atendê-lo. Pra onde vamos?- Boa tarde, amigo — educado o sujeito! — Pode seguir pela JK, vamos pegar a marginal.- Claro, senhor. A temperatura do carro está a seu agrado?- Sim, sim, obrigado.- A música lhe agrada? Tem alguma preferência?- Não, está ótima, pode deixar.
O sujeito está me tratando tão bem que estou achando que ele quer me comer. Porra, sabia que usar essas roupas de publicitário era roubada. Melhor eu dar bandeira de que não curto. E deixar claro que não tenho nada contra quem curte também.
- O senhor aceita um chocolate?- Quanto é?- É de graça, por favor, pode se servir.- De graça? — Opa, vou encher a mão aqui!
Rapaz… estranho isso. Sei lá, não estou acostumado com prestação de serviço assim não. Aqui em São Paulo quando um prestador de serviço lhe dá um sorriso pode conferir a conta novamente.
- Se quiser uma água tenho aqui e se precisar acessar a internet o veículo tem wi-fi.
Olha, que coisa… eu estava me sentindo um barão. É assim que um rico deve se sentir curtindo seu carrão com motorista. E tudo isso com R$ 20,00 de descon… CARALHO!!!! Que freiada foi essa? Puta merda! E que cace… ei!!!
- Desculpa, senhor, eles se jogaram na frente do carro!- Eles? Mas…
O que é isso?! Dezenas de sujeitos batendo no carro. Pancadas em todo canto. Ovos. Farinha. Que porra é essa!?!?! Os caras são… são… são taxistas!
- TAXISTAS, UNIDOS, JAMAIS SERÃO VENCIDOS! EI, UBER, VAI TOMAR NO RABO! O POVO NÃO É BOBO, QUER O TAXI NO COMANDO DE NOVO!
Palavras de ordem, turba violenta! Minha nossa! Eles estão tentando abrir as portas. Ei, calma, não, a porta não.
- Força aí nessa porta, Waldemar!- Segura aí, força, Roberval!- Opa, opa, abriu, abriu!!!- Tira o cara, tira o cara!
Me pegaram pelo colarinho, me tiraram do carro no braço! Porra, não tenho nada a ver com isso, só quero chegar em casa.
- Tá aqui, o passageiro tá na mão!- Quem tá na vez, quem tá na vez?!- Tonho é o da vez! Arrasta o cara, arrasta o cara!- É teu, Tonho, é teu!
Porra, esses putos estão me sequestrando é?!?!?
- Entra aí, compadre.- Mas que bosta é essa?- Livramos você desse motorista pirata, mermão, entra aí, vai logo!
Como se eu tivesse alternativa.
O coitado do motorista do Uber todo encolhido, os caras quebrando tudo. Que merda é essa. Me jogaram em um carro meia boca, cheirando a mofo e cigarro. O barulho lá de fora se misturava com a música gospel que tocava no som do carro e o chiado agudo do rádio da cooperativa.
- E aí, mano, vai pra onde? — Me perguntou um motorista com a camisa aberta até o umbigo, tipo Augustinho Carrara, e um palito na boca.
Sem opção, respondi.
- Vou pra Osasco e…- Ah, mano, Osasco? Nem fodendo, levo não, desce aí vai…

PS. Achei que inserindo chuva em uma CRÔNICA que acontece em São Paulo e terminando com esse final já deixaria claro se tratar de uma obra de ficção mas pelo jeito preciso ESCREVER isso porque tem gente que realmente não conseguiu perceber… vai lá, né…
Gostou do texto? Se gostou clica aí no “recommend”, logo abaixo, e ajude mais pessoas a conhecê-lo.
A primeira publicação brasileira no Medium. Uma produção colaborativa de histórias e tendências para instigar você!


This ultimate list is made for entrepreneurs, startups or anyone who want to become better in life and work. And i believe this will deliver some value or any value to someone or any one.
So let’s get started with free apps/tools today and make things happen!















































































































































If you liked this post, do click ♥ below and share with people around so others can enjoy this too.
Written by @terrytsang811, founder of entrepreneurguide.me — the awesome free guide for entrepreneurs, startups, freelancers, businesses and you. I also built plugins for WooCommerce and WordPress. To learn more and get in touch, visit http://terrytsang.com.
Entrepreneur . Business . Life
Sharing our ideas and experiences
We all love our coworkers, don’t we? Sure we do. Especially if one of them is reading over your shoulder right now.
But according to science, four out of five coworkers are annoying. There are many ways to deal with annoying coworkers, but obviously the most effective way is to picture them as rappers.
Picturing your coworkers as rappers makes you laugh and provides a helpful nickname that can be used when talking about them behind their backs. Here are a few.
When Two Cent asks if he can tell you what he thinks, it’s a rhetorical question. So, you play along and say yes, then sit there nodding. It doesn’t matter if it’s an email he wasn’t originally sent or a meeting he wasn’t originally invited to, he’s always there and ready to share his thoughts.
No matter what you do, you can’t get this coworker out of his cubicle. He skips meetings, he skips lunch, he sometimes even skips going home. If you approach his cubicle, he treats you like an alien from some faraway planet, which is exactly how you feel about him.
Like clockwork, you get an email from this coworker every Monday, Wednesday and/or Friday morning saying he’s working from home. You’ve started using his desk for cupcake parties.
If this coworker is already overloaded with work, why does he keep volunteering for more? Probably because he loves complaining that he worked all weekend and hasn’t slept in days.
No one expects perfection, except Nit Picky Minaj. No matter how hard you try to distract her with glaringly obvious mistakes, she skips past those and points out 10 ridiculously tiny things that no one else will care about.
EmineMBA is scheduling meetings for 8am, writing 20 page documents, and always wants to “pick your brain”. The summer never seemed so long.
You want to do it your way? Try again. Young Buck the System will never follow the process you set up, even if it did take you a year to do. You try to teach him a lesson or two, but no matter what you do, nothing gets through.
With Snoop Snoopy Dog, you need a screen protector for your screen protector. Whenever he’s near, his eyes are darting from your laptop to your phone to your tablet and back again. He should just take a picture, and there’s a good chance he has.
Young Sneezy is ill, but not in a good way. You tell him to go home, but he says he’s fine. Between sneezes and coughs, he’s touching your chair, your keyboard and your monitor, which explains why your desk smells like anti-bacterial soap.
Where’s the fire? There is no fire, but he’s in a rush anyway. He won’t wait for you to get off the phone before he starts talking, get out of the conference room before he’s starting his own meeting, or finish your sentence before he’s already replied to the email.
If you enjoyed this, follow The Cooper Review on Facebook!
Related: 14 Rap Lyrics You Can Use on Your Conference Call Today
Originally published at thecooperreview.com.
Comedy from the soul of my brain. Creator of http://TheCooperReview.com and author of upcoming book, 100 Tricks to Appear Smart in Meetings (October 2016)
Satire for Your Life Cereal
If you want people to like you, be 100% comfortable in your own skin. Hands down, there’s no more attractive quality than a person who is utterly comfortable with who they are. This quality transcends physical appearance, intelligence, education, income or personality. It is the cornerstone of success in business and in life.
Now, would you like the good news or the bad news?
The bad news, as you already suspect, is that your internal life is insanely complicated. Maybe your mother didn’t let you play with toys until you were 11, so you have low self-esteem. Maybe you grew up in the Pacific northwest and only saw the sun on every third Thursday, so you tend towards gloom and doom.
Maybe you are just brutally honest with yourself and have recognized that your hair isn’t quite as soft and supple as your most popular colleagues at work.
Just because I say “be comfortable in your own skin” doesn’t mean that — POOF! — you can instantly do it.
Now for the good news: your internal “comfort level” is not fixed; you can change it.
In the spirit of complete disclosure, if today you are insecure and self-critical, overnight you are not going to change into George Clooney. But you can certainly move in the right direction, and the more that you do, the more other people will like you.
To make progress, you need to do three things:
1.) Accept your qualities you cannot change. Don’t waste any psychic energy on all that stuff I said up top, such as how your parents raised you or whether your feet are too large. (If this is a sensitive point for you, I apologize and mean no offense.) By definition, being comfortable in your own skin means accepting your vulnerabilities as well as your strengths. For example, I have the skinniest ankles of any grown adult male you have ever seen, and it doesn’t bother me one whit.
2.) Recognize your ability to change is FAR greater than you once thought. You can’t change your height, but you can change how hard you work, how grateful you are for your blessings, how open you are to new ideas, how you approach difficult challenges, and how willing you are to pay the price for what you most want in life. This does not mean change is easy; it means change is possible.
3.) Be persistent. It takes time to build both confidence and competence. Invest the time, even on days when you feel as though you are sliding backward. Can you become utterly self-assured in a week? Nope. Can you do it over several years? Probably. Can you do it over a decade? Absolutely.
Why does this work?
To generalize a bit, no one likes incoherent thinking. We hate it when an attractive person complains about being unattractive. We dislike hearing someone make empty promises over and over again. Although we may not understand exactly what’s happening, we are not attracted to people who have obvious internal conflicts.
Or at least I’m guessing that’s what happens. All I know for sure is that most folks love people who accept who they are. You know what I mean: we’ve all seen people with obvious limitations utterly charm a room because they focus on their blessings rather than on their curses.
Personally, I’ve learned a lot about this subject by watching actors. How is it that Paul Giamatti can appear to be either totally charismatic and self-confident or weak and a total loser?
In 2001, the New York Times called Giamatti “an avatar of averageness: medium height and medium build, a little pale and unathletic-looking, with a receding hairline and not much of a chin.”
I’m no head-turner, but I can compete with that. Or maybe not. Here’s the rest of the NYT paragraph from which I lifted the above quote:
…his intense, friendly, nebbishy manner — he might remind you of Wallace Shawn or Woody Allen — along with his elastic features and infectious laugh have made him, if not a household name, at least one of the most employable supporting players in the business.
14 years later, Giamatti pretty much is a household name. This is a triumph of talent and confidence. He doesn’t have leading man looks, but his IMDB filmography just goes on and on and on.
When I have a bad week, I’m sometimes tempted to watch a big Hollywood star playing a complete loser. Think of Michael Douglas in Falling Down, where he plays an unemployed defense worker. The guy seems like such an average, pitiable loser… but in the back of my mind, I know he’s married to Catherine Zeta-Jones and that the two are Hollywood royalty.
Such a performance demonstrates that being comfortable in your own skin is not a function of how your skin looks; it is a function of what you believe inside.
My greatest lesson in life, bar none, is that people have a much greater ability to change than most recognize. So you have two choices.
If you like this article, please recommend it to help others find it!
Ghostwriter. LinkedIn Influencer. Skier. Will cross street to pat a dog. Check out my Day Old Lessons at http://www.kasanoff.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

Hi, my name is Isis. I’m a full-stack engineer at OneLogin. They asked me to be one of four others participating recruiting campaign that was hastily planned and executed in 1 day. I was not personally ready for the amount of attention that it has brought me.
I doubt that most of you know me. I am a passionate self-taught engineer, extreme introvert, science-nerd, anime-lover, college dropout, hip hop dancer, yoga teacher/hoop-dance teacher, really authentic friend and HUMAN(omg?!). In fact, if you knew me you would probably know that being famous is one of my biggest nightmares; seriously right up there with falling into a porta potty. I keep to myself most of the time and generally prefer when others mind their own business too.
I’m pretty blown away at the amount of attention my ad particularly has received. Friends have messaged me screenshots of their friends(who don’t know me) who have posted photos of it followed by discussion threads where it has received both positive and negative attention. Some of the responses warm my heart while others I consider to be kind of shocking… I will continue to post various threads that people send me on both sides of that spectrum.
I didn’t want or ask for any of this attention, but if I can use this to put a spotlight on gender issues in tech I consider that to be at least one win. The reality is that most people are well intentioned but genuinely blind to a lot of the crap that those who do not identify as male have to deal with. To list just a couple personal experiences:
I would like to add that both men responsible for these unfavorable experiences are not bad people. They are both socially-accepted, “smart” and “normal” guys. This illustrates one of the industry’s deep underlying issues. There is a significant lack of empathy and insight towards recognizing that their “playful/harmless” behavior is responsible for making others inappropriately uncomfortable. This industry’s culture fosters an unconscious lack of sensitivity towards those who do not fit a certain mold. I’m sure that every other woman and non-male identifying person in this field has a long list of mild to extreme personal offenses that they’ve just had to tolerate. I’m not trying to get anyone in trouble, fired or ruin anyone’s life. I just want to make it clear that we are all humans, and there are certain patterns of behavior that no one should have to tolerate while in a professional environment.
The negative opinions about this ad that strangers feel so compelled to share illustrate solid examples of the sexism that plagues tech.
“Caitlyn, when you were a man, we could talk about your athleticism, your business acumen,” Stewart said. “But now you’re a woman, which means your looks are really the only thing we care about.”
At the end of the day, this is just an ad campaign and it is targeted at engineers. This is not intended to be marketed towards any specific gender — segregated thoughts like that continue to perpetuate sexist thought-patterns in this industry.
As for the comments about the ad… Is it so unheard of that I genuinely care about my teammates? Some people think I’m not making “the right face”. Others think that this is unbelievable as to what “female engineers look like”. News flash: this isn’t by any means an attempt to label “what female engineers look like.” This is literally just ME, an example of ONE engineer at OneLogin. The ad is supposed to be authentic. My words, my face, and as far as I am concerned it is.
I didn’t ask for any of this attention, and I’m rather uncomfortable with all of it. I’m just a human and I prefer to keep my life simple/reserved, but it blows my mind that my fully-clothed smiling face with unbrushed hair and minimal makeup on a white wall is seemingly more controversial in some communities than this simply because of my gender:
Do you feel passionately about helping spread awareness and increase tech diversity?
Do you not fit the “cookie-cutter mold” of what people believe engineers “should look like?”
If you answered yes to any of these questions I invite you to help spread the word and help us redefine “what an engineer should look like”. #iLookLikeAnEngineer

My stories have become such a source of inspiration for so many people. I am now developing a team to build out www.ilooklikeanengineer.com, a safe platform for us all to continue to share our stories and experiences relating to diversity issues in tech. If you are a UX designer or know Ruby on Rails/Backbone and would like to help contribute, we would love to have you on board. Please reach out at the information provided on the landing page.
Some pretty amazing people, spearheaded by my co-workers wonderful wife Michelle, have joined together to make this movement make a lasting impact. I kind of fell backwards into all of this, but I really want to do everything I can to use the position that I am in to help make a positive impact. When this is all in the past, I would like to have created a larger impact on the community than simply generating a Twitter presence. Spreading awareness is the first step, but I want to help facilitate concise plans of action so we can create a genuine change. If you have any personal input and advice that you think could help make a difference please feel free to share it with me at isis@ilooklikeanengineer.com. You can help support us by checking out:

http://www.eventbrite.com/e/ilooklikeanengineer-with-isis-wenger-tickets-18026391422
Who knew one blog post could ignite such a profound movement? It can be very alienating to not fit a standard mold. Our goal is to bring together a diverse group of like-minded people from technology and science for a fun evening filled with activities, mingling and sharing our voices.
@isisAnchalee
*I give permission for press to use the material from this post*
Hoops and loops. Disrupting your sea of homogeny.
Home to some of the best articles on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.
It’s easy to fantasize about building a startup and making it big, but it’s much harder to turn those dreams into a reality. The media and entertainment industries have glamorized the process, neatly trimming the hard times of entrepreneurship to fit into feature length films and buzzy posts on social media. But for every story of a college kid turned billionaire, there’s an unsung hero hustling hard under the radar whom we can actually relate to. This is the story of how Ryan Graves helped build Uber.
Ryan started with a lot of hustle. He didn’t think he had any kind of intellectual capacity over anyone else that would set him apart. He’s not an engineer and wasn’t a great student. However, when he got to college, he realized the only way he was going to be successful was to out hustle everyone else. So that’s what he did. His grades picked up, and he began to develop a passion for hard work.
Ryan began putting career decisions first and soon found himself working at General Electric (GE). While at GE, however, he had an itch to build something himself. At GE, it was common to stay at the company your entire career and receive the gold watch upon retirement. Ryan didn’t want that. He wanted to start and grow something from scratch and try to make a dent in the world.
SocialDreamium was his side project while working at GE. It was essentially TweetDeck, and a short-lived project, but helped him gain product experience as a founder. With his co-founder, he wrote specs for products and sold them while wearing all the hats that startup founders do. It was an unsuccessful company, but it gave him the entrepreneurial outlet he needed while he was working at GE to feel alive.
If you’ve been following Uber over the past four or five years, this is the part of the story you’re probably familiar with: Ryan really wanted to get out of GE and work at a startup. His next attempt to break into startups was with Foursquare. After unsuccessfully applying several times, Ryan went door-to-door to bars and restaurants and convinced 30 prospects to run mayor deals on Foursquare. He sent his work to the company and was able to get an introduction to Dennis Crowley, who set him up with an internship at Foursquare.
While on Twitter one day, Ryan noticed a tweet from Travis Kalanick: “Looking for PM killer. Any tips?” Ryan was hustling and following Travis because he knew Travis was tapped into Silicon Valley and investing in companies. So Ryan followed up with: “Here’s a tip: email me,” and gave Travis his email. That was how he met Travis and Garrett. He flew out to New York to meet Travis and Garrett, and was finally able to capitalize on putting himself in the right position; he had a story to tell and Travis bought it. Ryan joined Travis and Garrett in getting ready to launch what was then called UberCab, eventually moving to San Francisco and growing Uber. It was all because of hustle, putting himself in the right position, and meeting as many people as possible.
Uber is killing it and Ryan’s there because he met Travis on Twitter. Travis isn’t the only person Ryan has met on Twitter; Ryan has made a lot of things happen on the platform. It’s not uncommon in the tech scene to meet people you would never have access to otherwise through Twitter. When you don’t have anything, you just have to hustle your ass off, and Twitter is one of the best ways to leverage your efforts.
Creating a successful startup means solving a problem in a scalable and profitable way. You can’t just go out there and talk to your users and do every single thing they want. You need to start with a problem. The problem Travis and Garrett found was very clear. The majority of incoming taxi requests on a Friday and Saturday night in San Francisco went completely unanswered. Clearly there was a problem there. Travis and Garrett developed a very elegant and simple solution for users (which hides a number of features on the back end that are quite complex) based on a real problem they personally experienced and were frustrated about. They scratched their own itch.
As you’re starting a company, not only do you need to be pretty excited about solving a problem, but you also must have a problem to solve. It’s easy to build another app because you can, chase the next social thing, or try becoming the next Uber for x, Airbnb for y, or Product Hunt for z, but there are a lot of real problems that are less sexy that have yet to be addressed. So find a problem and go after it.
Being an optimist in a startup environment can be difficult because everything is working against you. Building a company is like being in a boxing ring: you always need to be on your toes and you’re always getting clocked. People always think things aren’t going to work and that’s why, most of the time, things aren’t done.
It’s common for people to walk up to Ryan and say, “Oh man, I had the idea for Uber a few years ago. I did the research, but everybody said it couldn’t be done, so it didn’t make sense to do it.” As Ryan would think: maybe it doesn’t make sense. But the reason Uber exists now is because they believed it could be done and they were irrationally optimistic that they could get it done, and as a result, other people believed them too. Optimism breeds solutions. (Tweet)
It’s not fun to stay in on a Friday night when everyone else is out, but Ryan embraced this in ways many of us wouldn’t. Early on at Uber, Ryan spent his New Year’s Eves staring at Godview and making sure everything was working correctly. He wasn’t out throwing back champagne and partying it up. He was frantically on the phone with drivers and clients. He embraced personal sacrifice during a critical time in the business because he believed it would pay off. If you’re willing and able to do that, it’s going to set you off in the right direction.
Here’s a little more insight into this New Year’s Eve example. Ryan’s New Year’s Eve starts at 11:00pm, December 30th in San Francisco (6:00pm, December 31st in Sydney, Australia). Ryan and his team don’t stop working until 5:00am, January 1st in San Francisco. It’s basically a 30-hour marathon.
With all that being said, Ryan notes that you must take care of yourself. The media glorifies not sleeping and not taking vacations in startup life. It’s ok to realize that you do need to sleep and you do need to occasionally take a day off to recharge. No sleep isn’t cool. If you’re not well rested, then you’re not going to have the endurance to handle the biggest problems that are thrown at your company; you’re not going to have the energy to keep coming back at it after continually getting knocked down. Take care of yourself and have an outlet. When you take a weekend off and come back from that break, you are refreshed and excited to dig back in and take on the hard issues. Burnout does nothing to move your startup forward and undoes your previous sacrifices.
As an entrepreneur, there’s a ton of crazy ups and downs. You need to be able to talk to someone about what’s going on. When Ryan got off the phone with Travis from that initial tweet about Uber, he was so pumped. It was 1:30 in the morning, but his wife stayed up with him during the call and was totally supportive and happy for Ryan.
So Here’s the Kicker….
We’ve never actually met Ryan. We’ve never been to one of his interviews or his speaking engagements. We don’t personally know anybody that knows Ryan. We’re using the same hustle and grind that he’s used throughout his career to collect his advice here so more people can learn from him the same way we have.
Surprisingly, there’s not too much information about Ryan online. We scoured the internet and read every article that mentioned his name. We found several videos of Ryan and even found some old videos of him interviewing other entrepreneurs for a video blog he started in the mid 2000s (he actually interviewed Andrew Mason during the time when Groupon was called The Point). Lastly, we hunted through every single one of his tweets and direct messaged or cold emailed anyone that had a conversation with Ryan on Twitter to ask if they could provide us some information about him for this article. Most people didn’t respond, but we got enough responses to pull things together.
If you’re reading this, you know how much of a rat race Silicon Valley is. Outside of the Valley we constantly hear people tell us that it’s only about luck and timing. However, we believe that the Ryan Graves’ of the world would still be successful even if one of their initial companies didn’t work out. A quote attributed to Louis Pasteur says “Fortune favors the prepared mind.” People like Ryan Graves hustle, research, and prepare to know their industries and markets so well, that when the timing is right, they pounce on an opportunity and don’t look back.
So Ryan, we’re huge fans of your story (even if no one makes a movie about you, but they should) and we wanted to say thank you for showing us how to hustle and grind.
Co-authored by Danny Minutillo and Gabe Marcial
Find Gabe at gmarcial@tradecrafted.com or Twitter: @gabetheory
Find Danny at dminutillo@tradecrafted.com or Twitter: @danny_minutillo
Growth @Tradecraft | Excited about consumer tech and very early stage startups. Reach me at dminutillo@tradecrafted.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?



Got a graph/chart request? put it in the notes, or feel free to Tweet or throw it at Facebook. (Or you can find more over on Instagram)
I also have a desk for sale…
…and I write things when I'm not drawing things. Mostly about failing to do things, like this or like this other time.
Part 2 can be found here.
I write stuff, draw stuff, design stuff, build stuff. https://instagram.com/instachaaz/

When you’re a creative, unless you’re lucky enough to have a book deal or a paid publishing gig, you don’t have a lot of accountability. It’s a very privileged freedom, but it’s a freedom we pay for.
It means that most of the time, the world will keep spinning if you drop off the planet and never finish another piece of work. And it also means that you are the only one who can make you finish anything.
Because if you don’t push yourself, every day, to wake up and look in the mirror and ignore the feeling of near exhaustion that comes with balancing creativity and life itself, you could die without finishing anything.

There’s no end of examples of startup founders and rock stars and YA authors who have made absolute bank and never have to work another day in their lives. I wish I was one of them, believe me.
By all means, plan to make money. Work to make money. Capitalise financially on whatever success you have.
But if you want to build or create something of honesty and integrity, whether that’s a startup or an album of Japanese noise music, you have to be able to put aside that focus on getting rich.

We all want people to understand us, and understand our work, and understand what drives us. On some levels, the act of building something is an attempt to communicate in our own language. That could be an app, a line of code, or a book.
It’s going to get frustrating, and you’re going to want to scream.
You might even feel persecuted when people get the wrong end of the rope and try to hang you with it. Does it matter? No way. All that matters is that you listen to what drives you and you create what needs to be created.

Businesses can take a while to catch on, apps aren’t always an instant hit, and I’ve got news for the writers out there — even Kim Kardashian can’t sell more than 30,000 copies of a book. Most of us won’t be able to make a living off what we build right away. That’s where having a job comes in.
When all you want to do is work on your own project and create something that matters, it’s frustrating to have to set it aside every day and focus on the work that will make you money. The work that will pay the bills. The office job with the business suit or the 9-hour shift in a uniform you hate wearing.
But I challenge anyone to show me a job from which you can’t learn something. I flipped Burgers at McDonald’s for 5 years when all I wanted to do was paint skateboards, code websites and tour with a succession of shitty bands. It taught me how to manage people, how to manage my time, how to serve customers, and how to surprise and delight people when they don’t expect it.

The best thing I have ever written, in my honest opinion, is a 5-page short story about my experiences playing punk rock and hanging out with my best friends before life drove us apart. I love it, and I’m proud of it. Every now and then when I read through it, I honestly feel like I haven’t achieved the same raw emotion in anything I’ve created since.
Unfortunately, everyone I have shown it to can’t stand that piece of writing. They just can’t.
When John Romero made the video game Daikatana, he was creating the game that he dreamed of playing. Almost everyone hated it. I don’t know how he feels about it now or if he’s still as proud of it as he was when he first made it, but I do know that it was widely reviled.

There’s a flip-side to number 5. The work that you always felt let you down, the pieces and the concepts and companies that never quite lived up to your dreams could be what you are remembered for. You want to know why?

With the internet where it is, there’s no reason why you can’t turn what you build into at least a minor revenue stream. How? You treat it like a business. This is something I plan to expand on in a future post, but what it really comes down to is that…
You can take whatever creative work you are pursuing and turn it into a business if you try hard enough. But you have to treat it like a business. Have a product, have a marketing plan, and understand how to grow revenue. Read the $100 startup. Read almost any book on startups. Don’t be a starving artist, be a businessperson with a flair for painting.

…In fact, they’ll probably celebrate. Most people talk about Richard Branson, Paul McCartney and J.K. Rowling as though they were gods. Most people talk about entrepreneurs and creatives in hushed tones and admire them for being courageous and innovative.
I’m not sure why this is. I wish I was. As a general rule, if we all lived our lives by what the majority of people wanted us to do, there’d be no end of engineers, lawyers and doctors and there’d never be another novel published.
So when you start to doubt your path (and you will) there’s a good chance your friends won’t tell you to stick to your guns.

This is something that I find difficult to accept. It doesn’t matter how good anything I create is, it only matters that I get it finished.

You’ll never be able to create your best work if you don’t publish any work. You’ll never turn your startup into Google if you never get it past a landing page with an email sign up form and a vague concept of an MVP.
Read that line again until you believe it.
Now read it again until you can think of a better way of phrasing it.
See? It wasn’t perfect.
You have to be able to put aside your fears and your nervousness and commit to publishing your work, posting your music and launching your concept. You have to, because if you don’t, you will never accomplish the things you want to accomplish. And your dreams will die. And you’ll probably turn into a real tool.


See Also: https://medium.com/the-unlisted/how-to-make-something-people-give-a-shit-about-83486f42118c

Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

For many years, Photoshop was an ultimate go-to tool for designing digital interfaces. From simple web pages up to complex native apps.
Was, because designers most used software becomes out of date. I’ve realised this after trying its rising competitors — Sketch 3 and Affinity Designer. Frankly speaking, it was probably the first time I worked with different software than Adobe on UI design. I must say it was a very refreshing experience.
I’ve tried a different perspective. Another approach to UI design workflow and I liked it. It was Sketch that changed my look at my process. Because it’s intended to work as an interface design tool, its core logic is way different than the PS.
It embraces focusing on the design as… how to say, on the product? For me, its workflow is much closer to the way software/websites are developed. It won’t let you treat your design as painting canvas of some sort.
This experience results in this story. I realised how much software we’re using influence our workflow logic. Right now we’re at the very exciting moment. Photoshop is getting old. It’s slow, its core code is heavily outdated and after all it was made as photo editor not interface design tool. Former champion became lazy and got fat. At the same time rebels appeared. But none of them is perfect.
We’re right before the biggest change on the UI design tools market since Fireworks. It’ll go one way or another. Adobe will release the killing design soft, written from the ground, or its competitors will take the market for themselves.
Let’s stop for a minute and think — how would The Perfect UI design software look like? What toolset would suit designers needs perfectly and make our workflows most efficient? Or even revolutionise the way we’re designing interfaces? You can find mine 14 must-haves.
One of the biggest problems of Photoshop is its greediness. PS eats your computer memory like a monster and nonetheless — works slow. I recently found it difficult to work with one website design on MBP retina from 2014 with 8GBs of RAM.
It’s obvious that making software that’s faster and lighter is possible. Both Affinity Designer and Sketch beats Adobe flagship on his head.
No one likes when few hours of hard work wastes when software crashes. It’s a real problem with today design software. I think none of the most popular solutions works well enough.
Affinity has its child-age problems and crashes a lot, especially when using transparency tool. Photoshop is stable as rope bridge. I didn’t work in Sketch for some time, so I can’t tell how it looks today, but I recall some frustrating crashes.
Sketch is a winner here. Photoshop wasn’t meant as UI design tool at all. It’s photo editor in its core after all (regardless many additions here and there). Adobe introduced a beta version of UI design workspace in PS but come on. First of all they cut way too many functionalities. Second, it looks for me like Winamp skin. We need a truly dedicated software.
Meanwhile, Affinity looks little better than photoshop on this field but lacks any measurement tools. You can’t tell the distance between objects or scale an object by demanded percent value.
Sketch is almost perfect. Almost because it has almost every single feature needed, but it’s interface could be designed to be more usable.

For me, it’s a must have in today world. We’re designing for many devices, for many screen resolutions. Ability to easily rescale our work is a must have. Fortunately, software developers think the same.
Every single app I mentioned allows to create vector based designs. My favourite here is Affinity with its non-destructive booleans. The least comfortable to use is Sketch. It has limited capabilities.
You’ll need from time to time. To adjust photo colors or make some changes to raster graphics you use without leaving the app. Photoshop capabilities here are almost limitless.
Affinity has an efficient set of tools for the most of tasks. Besides this, there’s also sister app from Serif: Affinity Photo, which works great with the Designer.
Unfortunately, Sketch is really bad in this field. It’s almost impossible to perform any raster-based tasks in it. You may say it has its cons — It forces you to think carefully before putting something into your design, but. Sometimes you need to make some changes on the go. Sketch is clear looser here.
It’s my great problem with Photoshop. When you scale pixel layer down it’s being compressed and loose quality. Unless you convert it to a smart object first. But smart objects are heavy, slows down your work, and for me, they’re made for different tasks.
They’re great when you design e.g. button. You’re creating an object with button design then and copy it wherever you need creating instances. When you change button color, it changes everywhere. Great! But why making additional smarts just not to lose image quality when scaling?
Affinity is great here. You can scale an image ten times, and it preserves start quality. It’s awesome. I was amazed when I discovered it. Then thought come, that it should be obvious… thanks, Adobe, I felt like stone-age relic because PS take on that.
and give you a possibility to preview it in pixels in real time. And it has retina pixel mode! How great. None of the competitors comes even close.
The case? for me every single design should be grid based.
Beside that they can enhance UX by creating predictable patterns for users to follow. Yes, they’re crucial.
I’d like to have a simple tool for generating grids. One that will calculate and distribute them based on my inputs. I’d also love support for grid breakpoints, something no one supports today.
Just watch how it works in Sketch. I’d like to see it everywhere!
I’ve recently written an article about typography rules for beginners. You can find it here. Though I’ve outlined only the basics none of the most modern UI design tools supports all functions needed. No options of custom word spacing, hanging punctuation and so on.
Artboards allow you to create fixed frames on the open canvas. If you’re creating a responsive web design or a mobile app for different devices, you may want to turn each screen size into an Artboard. They’re great. Artboards allow you also to use smart objects or symbols across the design. All the screens in one file. Very convenient! Today, only Affinity Designer isn’t able to pull them off. I hope it’ll change soon.
New apps coming to the market means greater segmentation. Not everyone will be using the same product, and different teams have different workflows. In one the designer will send PSD files to the developer, in the other designer will produce a pack of assets for the developer. That means that a great software have to export designers work in different formats.
I like what Affinity is doing. It allows you to import PSD files (pretty well!) and export your Affinity made designs to PSD also! It’s great. PSD format is a standard after all and, it’ll stay that way for a while.
The last thing is very simple. In both Photoshop and sketch you can just right-click on the object and copy its CSS properties. It’s that easy. Affinity Designer lacks this function. And it needs to catch up on it very soon!
There is no perfect solution available for designers today. Although perspectives are promising. Above I’ve presented my vision. Things that are crucial for me to work smoothly and efficiently. I’m really curious, what would you like to see in The Perfect UI design tool? What functionalities would make you a better designer?
Thank you for reading,
Tom is a Senior Web Designer at GOG.com and freelance Product Designer & Art Director at Pixology.
Do you like my story? Share or recommend it please, I’ll be very grateful!
Senior Web Designer at GOG.com. Freelance product designer, art director and founder at Pixology. Music and typo lover. Gamer. http://www.behance.net/tomkoszyk
Interaction / Product / User Experience / User Interface / Design
There are Chinese and Russian translations of this article,and there’s a follow-up with Principle, Flinto for Mac & Tumult Hype.
I recreated the IF by IFTTT user onboarding in five different high-fidelity prototyping tools to get an idea of the differences between them: Proto.io, Pixate, Framer, Facebook’s Origami and RelativeWave’s Form.
See how these five recreations behave compared to the real thing:

Why did I select these five? I discovered that recreating something that is this animation-heavy (icons moving around in different directions and at different speeds) is not even possible in most prototyping packages. The majority of tools only let you connect static pages, while only the more complex ones let you animate different objects or layers within a given page.
I’ll explain it a bit more.
In a page-based tool, you lay out different screens, and then you make hotspots or buttons to connect them together. You tap a button somewhere on one screen to go to another screen. Page-based tools generally also have a choice of different transitions between screens, like fade in, slide in from the right, slide up from below, etc. It’s a bit clunky, but it’s a good way to make quick mockups when you’re still figuring out the flow of an app (which and how many screens are needed, how they would appear, where buttons should go, etc.).
Examples of page-based tools are: Briefs, InVision, Notism, Flinto, Fluid, Mockup.io, Prott, POP, Marvel, Balsamiq, Red Pen and Keynotopia. Granted, in some of these tools you can have animations or scrollable areas within a page, but you cannot use them to emulate every interaction possible in real native apps.
Every asset, interface element, or in other words, layer can be made tappable, swipe-able, draggable… but also animated. Prototyping a complete app in a tool like this would be crazy, though; it would be too much work (you might as well build the real app). But they’re great for trying out new interactions, or for tweaking the timing of an animation.
Proto.io, Pixate, Framer, Facebook’s Origami and RelativeWave’s Form are the tools I tried. To be honest, there are a few others — Axure and Indigo Studio — but they seem to be more enterprisey (read: rather expensive). I might try them out some other time.
So, onwards with the chosen ones.

Proto.io is a surprisingly powerful web app; it has many, many functions. But because everything works by drag-and-drop, clicking buttons and selecting values from lists, it can be a bit overwhelming sometimes to find the setting you need.
Because of the nature of the IF prototype — different objects moving at different speeds — I had to add several custom JavaScript calculations. The provided single-line text field was too small for the lengthy calculations so to have an overview I kept them in a text file on my computer. Important to note is that these JavaScript expressions can fail without warning. Be sure to check the console of your web browser when something doesn’t work. (I had an error caused by a variable containing a negative value.)
This is rather annoying: you have to click [Save Project] and then [Preview] every time you want see the result of the changes you made.
Not many. The animations are less fluid, though, because I had to attach many interactions containing custom JavaScript calculations to the scrollview. It’s not too bad on the web, but it’s way too slow on a device. Playback speed seems to be more normal for simpler prototypes.
view on Proto.io Spaces (sign up to import it to your account)

iOS app:Proto.io
Android app:Proto.io Player
Price:$29/month or $288/year for 5 active projects.There are also plans for 10, 15 or 30 active projects, and a free 15-day trial.

Pixate seems to strike the right balance between ease of use and functionality: it can do a lot more than the simpler page-based tools, but the learning curve is not too steep: after going through the User Guide and video tutorials you will be on your way. There are also several demos that you can deconstruct to see how they’re made.
Pixate Studio can use Xcode’s iOS Simulator (on Mac) to run the prototype. You can also connect with the iOS or Android app over local WiFi. This works great, especially because both (Simulator + app) update instantly.
The sixth page is missing, because the canvas in Pixate is only so wide.
view in app | download .pixate file

Mac or PC application:Pixate Studio
Mobile apps:iOS | Android
Price:Pixate StudioFree! (It used to be $149, until Google bought Pixate in July 2015.)Pixate Cloud$5/user/month or $50/user/year. (There is a free 30-day trial.)

As you probably know, Origami is built by the design team at Facebook working on Paper. Origami is not a standalone program, it’s kind of a plug-in for Quartz Composer, a visual programming environment that is part of Apple’s developer tools.
You program in Quartz Composer by connecting patches to each other. Different patches have different functions, and Origami is mainly a set of extra patches made for app UI design. Many people (not me, though) will prefer this to having to write code, but when you have to describe something like “if this, then do that, with the value from this calculation, but if not…” you’ll still have to program, but by connecting several patches instead of writing lines of code.
On a side note: IDEO also created a prototyping framework based on Quartz Composer, called Avocado. It has a few functions that might be handy for some projects: Bluetooth integration, an iOS interactive keyboard, a dial patch for scroll wheel-like interactions and a flippable card patch. Layers can also be made draggable.
This is going to be difficult. You can of course make a screen-recording of your prototype, but this defeats the purpose of making an interactive prototype; you might as well make something in After Effects. The only real way to try a prototype on another machine is to have the same setup. So if your client uses a Mac, she can install Quartz Composer + Origami to run your prototypes — after registering as an Apple Developer, of course.
It might run a bit slower than the real thing, depending on your computer. Quartz Composer is quite a power hog, and might have your computer’s fan spinning, especially when your Mac doesn’t have a powerful graphics card (like my Mac mini) or have a few monitors connected (guilty). I get maximum 20 fps, even when using just one monitor.
download .qtz file

Mac application:install instructions
iOS viewer:Origami Live
Price:Free! You do need an Apple Developer account, but that’s also free, as in beer, or whatever Apple developers might drink.

No dragging and dropping, pushing buttons, or connecting dots here — in Framer you will have to code. Programmers will feel at home, designers maybe less so. But it’s not too hard — Framer Studio uses a simplified version of JavaScript: CoffeeScript. But the fact that the actual engine (Framer.js) uses JavaScript makes for a lot of possibilities: you can do everything that’s possible in a web browser, so you can connect to servers to use live data, or create a Twitter client that shows real-time tweets.
With one click you can generate a public page (like this one), which can be viewed in Chrome or Safari, or in a mobile browser. (The link can be added to the iOS home screen as an ‘app’.) The same link can also be opened in the viewers (actually just chromeless browsers) for iOS and Android. A big prototype like this one might take several seconds to load in the viewer, but then it animates smoothly.
This prototype does a bit more than the other four: you can switch between the Sign in, Sign up and Reset Password modes on the last page. (You cannot actually log in or sign up, but even that would have been possible to recreate in Framer.)
view online | download .framer project

Mac application:Framer Studio
iOS app:Frameless
Android app:Framer
Price:Framer.js, the JavaScript framework, is open-source and free.Framer Studio is $99. (There is a free 14-day trial)

Form is still very young (it launched September 2014) and is clearly inspired by what Facebook and IDEO are creating on top of Quartz Composer. The folks at RelativeWave probably thought, “How would Origami look without the Quartz Composer baggage?” Origami users will feel right at home; many patches are the same and Form contains only the patches you need.
The prototype actually runs in the (WiFi or USB) connected iOS app. You’ll notice that there is no readout of the values when double-clicking a connection between two patches if no device is connected. A viewer in the Mac application, like in Quartz Composer, would definitely be handy, and seems to be planned.
The (free) iOS viewer can open .form files, so you can just email the file to the client for them to run on their iOS device.
Not many, I think. Let me know if you find any.
download .form file

Mac application:Form
iOS app:Form Viewer
Price:Free! The Mac application used to be $79.99, but when Google bought RelativeWave last November (only months after launch) they made it free.

If you have not yet used any of these, and want some quick prototyping done:
But if you’re ready to invest time into learning a powerful tool:
I’ve gotten acquainted with all of them (at least a bit), so I might use different tools for different situations:
Update: There’s now a follow-up:

These tools are all very young, and we’re all still figuring out what the best way would be to do interaction design, but I see a great future for Framer. I like the versatility and performance of Framer a lot, and I’ve found the perfect excuse to play with it some more: I’m writing a book about Framer!
The Framer book will be a manual for people without any programming experience, starting with the basics of CoffeeScript. It will also contain a bunch of tutorials in which you rebuild popular apps. And the book will show you how to add real data to your prototypes using a Parse or FireBase backend, or plug in live data from services like Twitter, Flickr, Dribbble, etc…
Sign up on framerbook.com to receive an early-bird discount when the book is released.
Originally published at cptv8.com.
iOS dev & app prototyper (Dutch, English, Spanish, some Русский)
A collection of design stories, tips, articles, tutorials on Sketch and prototyping, and more design content. Curated by the Sketch App Sources team ☺
We get it. You’re morally superior to the rest of us. Please stop writing posts on Medium about it and go to bed.
Coffee, Power Pop, Software, Cat-eye Glasses, Femme, and Queer. I worry about identity. Shoegaze bands turned me into a girl.








(and when you are done, read the FAQ)
If you subscribe to a subscription music service such as Spotify or Apple Music you probably pay $10 a month. And if you are like most people, you probably do so believing your money goes to the artists you listen to. Unfortunately, you are wrong.
The reality is only some of your money is paid to the artists you listen to. The rest of your money (and it’s probably most of your money) goes somewhere else. That “somewhere else” is decided by a small group of subscribers who have gained control over your money thanks to a mathematical flaw in how artist royalties are calculated. This flaw cheats real artists with real fans, rewards fake artists with no fans, and perhaps worst of all communicates to most streaming music subscribers a simple, awful, message: Your choices don’t count, and you don’t matter.
If you love music and want your money to go to the artists that you listen to, consider this simple hack. It’s easy to do, breaks no laws, does not violate any terms of service, directs more money to your favorite artists, but doesn’t actually require you to listen to any music, and best of all, it could force the music industry to make streaming royalties fair(er) for everyone. Sounds good, right?
So let’s cut to the chase. Here’s the hack:This September, when you aren’t listening to music, put your favorite indie artists on repeat, and turn the sound down low.
You might be saying “Wait a second, turn the sound down? How the heck does that do anything?”
Good question, let me explain.
Streaming services (Spotify, Apple, etc.) calculate royalties for artists by putting all of the subscription revenue in one big pool. The services then take out 30% for themselves. The remaining 70% is set aside for royalties.
This giant bag of royalties is then divided by the overall number of streams (aka “plays” or “listens”). The result is called the “per-stream royalty rate”.
The problem lies in the fact that this “Big Pool method” only cares about one thing, and one thing only: the overall number of streams. It does not care even a tiny little bit about how many subscribers generated those streams.
So why is this bad?
Imagine a hypothetical artist on a streaming service. Which do you think that artist would rather have: 10,000 fans who stream a song once, or one fan who streams it 10,001 times? Seems obvious, right? 10,000 fans is much better than one fan! But the Big Pool method, which only cares about the number of clicks, says the single person is worth more!
The message to artists and fans is crystal clear: the only fans that matter are the ones who click a lot. Everyone else can suck it.
This is bad for the artist, but astoundingly it’s even worse for streaming services: if each subscriber is paying $10 a month then those 10,000 subscribers would generate $1.2M in annual revenue, while the single user only generates a measly $120. Clearly the services benefit from getting more subscribers, not more streams, so why are they incentivizing streams and ignoring subscribers?
Even more backwards, the Big Pool method encourages the acquisition of heavy-usage subscribers, who are the easiest customers to get and retain (in fact most “music aficionados” are already subscribers), but offers little for light-usage subscribers, who are not only the hardest customers to get and retain, but are more profitable (by not requiring as much bandwidth) and most importantly dramatically greater in number.
It’s as if a car dealership paid the biggest commissions to the employees who sold the fewest number of cheap cars, and completely stiffed the employees who sold lots of expensive ones!
If the Big Pool rewards artists who get lots of streams, major labels can sign artists who can get a lot of streams. But what if artists aren’t the only ones getting lots of streams?
Click fraud is rarely discussed in the context of streaming music, but it’s fairly simple for a fraudster to generate more in royalties than they pay in subscription fees. All a fraudster has to do is set up a fake artist account with fake music, and then they can use bots to generate clicks for their pretend artist. If each stream is worth $0.007 a click, the fraudster only needs 1,429 streams to make their $10 subscription fee back, at which point additional clicks are pure profit. But that’s assuming they even paid $10 for the subscription in the first place: it’s possible to purchase stolen premium accounts on the black market, making the scheme profitable almost immediately. The potential profits are substantial: At Spotify it only takes 31 seconds of streaming to trigger a royalty payment, which means as many as 86,400 streams a month can be generated, resulting in over $600 of royalties. At Apple Music the threshold is just 20 seconds, making it hypothetically possible to clear 129,600 streams and $900 in royalties in just one month!
Awareness of click fraud in streaming music is so widespread that developers make apps to facilitate it. The services will tell you they work hard to make their systems secure, they pay bounties for people to find bugs, and once in a while they even catch and ban click frauders. But security researchers are not impressed, many people are not getting caught, and ultimately we have to confront the simple fact that there is no such thing as a foolproof way to prevent click fraud.
If the amount of click fraud activity on Google, Facebook, and Twitter is any indication (estimated to be over $6 billion a year), the problem could be far worse than any of the services will admit, or possibly even realize, and there’s no way for artists or fans to determine how much revenue has been stolen. It’s like someone sucking the oil out from under your property: you don’t even know it’s happening.
Click fraud is not the only way to cheat the system. One band made an album of completely silent tracks and told their “fans” to play the blank album on repeat while they slept. If a subscriber did as instructed the band earned $195 in royalties from that single subscriber in just one month. But if each subscriber only pays $10 in subscription fees, then where did the other $185 come from?
It came from people like you.
The media suggests that Spotify was the one being “scammed” by this “clever” and “brilliant” stunt, but in reality Spotify suffered no financial loss at all. The $20,000 that the band received didn’t come out of Spotify’s pockets, it came out of the 70% in royalties earmarked for artists. In essence what happened is every artist on Spotify got paid a little less thanks to an album with no music on it.
To understand why, we need to talk about how “average” can be an illusion.
One of the most misleading words used in the streaming music industry is the word “average”. You’ll often see streaming services bragging about how their “average” user is streaming x number of hours per day, particularly when they are pitching advertisers. But don’t be fooled by the word “average” here — it’s an illusion. Average does not mean typical.
Think of it this way: imagine you are in a room with a random group of people. What is the average income of everyone in the room? It’s likely that roughly half will be above average, and the other half will be below average.
Now what happens when Bill Gates walks into the room?
Everyone in the room is below average now, thanks to Bill.
The same effect is happening in streaming music: a small number of super-heavy-usage subscribers have raised the “average” usage to the point that most subscribers are now below average.
We can illustrate this with a graph:
To understand how heavy-users wind up in control of your money, it helps to look at how royalties flow at the individual level:
Every user pays $10 a month, which generates $7 in royalties. If the per-stream rate of $0.007 is determined by dividing overall revenue by overall plays, then simple math tells us the “average” subscriber is streaming 1,000 times (1,000 * $0.007 = $7.00).
So if you stream 200 tracks in a month you will send $1.40 to the artists you listened to (200 * $0.007 = $1.40), and the remaining $5.60 of your $7 is now up for grabs. So who’s grabbing it?
Well, let’s imagine a heavy-user who streams 1,800 tracks in a month. As a result of all this streaming they send $12.60 in royalties to the artists they listen to (1,800 * $0.007 = $12.60). Since they only contributed $7 towards royalties, they are $5.60 short. Guess where that money comes from?
You.
It’s worth noting that many (if not most) of these heavy-usage “subscribers” are probably not individuals at all. They are actually offices, restaurants, gyms, hair salons, etc. Businesses like these can stream up to 24 hours a day — far more you as an individual could ever hope to do. And they probably don’t share your taste in music either. But they pay the same $10 you do, so why do they get to decide where your money goes?
It’s like you bought a CD and the store told you that you had to listen to it 1,000 times, or they will give your money to Nickelback.
That’s fucked up.
There is a better way to approach streaming royalties, one which addresses all of these problems, and it’s called Subscriber Share.
The premise behind Subscriber Share is simple: the only artists that should receive your money are the artists you listen to. Subscriber Share simply divides up your $7 based on how much time you spend listening to each artist. So if you listen to an artist exclusively, then that artist will get the entire $7, but if you listen less they get proportionately less.
As an example, if you listen to Alt-J 25% of the time, then Alt-J would get $1.75 ($7.00 * 25% = $1.75):
Let’s compare this with the Big Pool: if you typically stream 200 streams per month (that’s roughly 13 hours of streaming), then playing Alt-J 25% of the time would equal 50 streams. Since each stream gets a flat $0.007 per stream, the band will recieve just 35 cents. (50 * $0.007 = $0.35)
Click here to see how this looks in real life, with a real subscriber.
A nice feature of Subscriber Share is that it is very difficult to turn a profit with click fraud: instead of turning $10 into $600, a fraudster would be turning $10 into $7, and would waste a lot of bandwidth while doing so.
If the fraudster used stolen premium accounts (reducing their cost from $10 to $1 per account), they could still make as much as $6 per account, but that is nowhere near as attractive as making $600 is it? And the difficulty level to do this at scale goes way up. If the industry switched to Subscriber Share most click frauders would move to greener pastures.
Subscriber Share can also be a huge benefit to small bands just starting out. If a band has a respectable fan base of 5,000 fans then they need $12.06 from every one of these fans in order to earn the federal minimum wage for four people, $60,320. In years past they would sell their fans a CD. But now under the Big Pool they need an ungodly number of streams to make minimum wage: 8.6 million streams.
This means every single fan has to stream the band’s music 1,716 times. Assuming a four minute song that’s over 114 hours of listening, and if their fanbase averages 200 streams per month then that means their fans would need to listen to the band 71% of the time for an entire year!
Subscriber Share only requires the fans to listen to the band 14.36% of the time, so if the typical fan averages 200 streams a month, then just 29 streams a month is sufficient, and the fan will only spend 22 hours in total listening to the band’s music. This is far more plausible for a new artist.
But intriguingly, Subscriber Share also enables fans to financially support an artist using even less effort: If a band can convince their 5,000 fans to listen to them exclusively for two months, the band will earn $70k, and the fans will only have to click once each month in order to do this.
Subscriber Share enables listeners to directly support the artists they care about without having to expend extraordinary amounts of energy to do so.
The result of Subscriber Share is that each and every fan winds up being far more valuable to artists. It honors the intent of the listener, and incentivizes getting more fans, bringing the goals of everyone (services, labels, artists and fans) into alignment.
If you think about it, this is how most of the genres we love got started in the first place. Hip hop, jazz, blues, reggae, punk, grunge, etc, all came from a small group of musicians, and a small group of fans, supporting each other. Who was the biggest beneficiary of this in the end? The music industry.
It boils down to two big obstacles: fear, and inertia.
To be fair, the music industry has been on the wrong end of the economic stick for well over a decade now, and talking about changing royalty methods just as it seems like things are about to get better is understandably scary.
The other problem is inertia. Institutions hate change, it’s expensive and hard, and you have to rethink everything attached to that change. Inevitably various special interests will arise and fight for the status quo. It can be very tricky to overcome their objections.
So it is difficult for the music industry to change, even when they know it’s in their best interest. They are like a cat stuck in a tree. They got themselves up, and can’t figure out how to get down.
If the industry is immobilized by fear, and can’t be persuaded to move in the right direction with logic, then one possible way to get them to get them out of the tree is to make it even scarier if they don’t move. In other words: We need to scare the cat out of the tree.
And that’s where our little hack comes in…

A critical aspect of streaming music services is that the services can’t tell if the volume is turned down. If the music is playing the “clicks” still count, even if no one is listening. This can be used to our advantage.
Normally a typical subscriber can’t keep up with heavy users, in part because many of these heavy users aren’t even individuals to begin with: they’re actually offices, hair salons, gyms, yoga studios, and restaurants. But if typical subscribers streamed music 24/7, and just turned the volume down when they weren’t listening, then maybe they could catch up!
And if these silent protestors streamed strictly independent artists, major labels would have to worry about the value of their streams decreasing! That could be enough to persuade them to reconsider the use of the Big Pool method, and if the major labels jump out of the Big Pool tree, the rest of the music industry will follow.
Even a small number of people engaging in this silent protest will have a measurable impact: just doing it for one day will double most people’s monthly consumption, and doing it for one week will result in more streams than a typical subscriber consumes in a year! But obviously the more the merrier. So let’s throw the idea out there and see what happens:
Note: It’s recommended that you turn the volume low, but not all the way to zero, and you should change your selected indie artist on a daily basis (or even better use playlists with multiple artists), so that you aren’t mistaken as a bot by the services.
If this works the music industry will be forced make royalties fair(er) for all musicians and fans. If it fails a couple of indie bands will get a bigger check than usual. What have we got to lose by trying?
A constantly updated FAQ can be found here
It’s that little box at the bottom on the right with an arrow coming out of the top. It looks like this:
Can’t get the word out unless you help get the word out!

Use in whatever way you like (Use as your social media profile pic in September, or sell t-shirts, bumper stickers, sponges, laser pointers, etc. if you want, it’s totally up to you!):
CEO & founder: @Bandago (van rental with fun stuff), father of two boys, ping pong enthusiast. Previously: guitarist & songwriter for @creeperlagoon
An ear for the new, a heart for the classics.

About me: I built Caskers. Now I’m building Native.
The Hair of the Dog is a sports bar located in the Lower East Side of Manhattan. Like most sports bars in New York, it has an ungodly number of televisions, a beer pong table and 3.5 stars on Yelp. More importantly though, Hair of the Dog has a single dollar price rating (“$”), which is really important when your goal is to be drunk by 3PM.
In October 2013, my cofounder and I were in negotiations to sell Caskers, an ecommerce site we founded just 1.5 years earlier that sold spirits (think booze, not ghosts) online. The negotiations had already dragged on for a few months, and we were just days away from our scheduled closing date. If you’ve ever been in the same situation before, you know that your mind starts wandering and thinking about all the possibilities that could still derail the sale of your company. It also starts thinking about ways you could spend millions of dollars, but you try not to put the cart before the horse.
The week before my company was sold, there was little I could do except sit around and wait. My team (there were three of us at the time — my cofounder, our first employee and me) would come into the office around 9AM and finish up whatever pressing tasks we had for the day by noon. Then, we’d head down to Hair of the Dog and try to kill time by drinking until happy hour ended at 8PM. The week we spent at Hair remains a hazy blur for me, but I’ve had more than a year of sobriety to reflect on the business that I started, grew and sold. These are the five most important lessons I learned from my time at Caskers.
Lesson #1: Be Frugal
While most startups these days seem to spend money lavishly, we built Caskers on a shoestring budget. We had come up with a business model that didn’t require inventory (much less office space). The backbone of our website was an ecommerce plugin for WordPress that was free. We customized a theme that we had purchased for $35 to the extent that we could, and hired a developer in India to help us build out what we couldn’t. Our largest initial expense was actually our logo, which we got after running three design contests and cost $800. In total, it only cost us $1,200 to build our entire website before launching.
After we launched, we focused on growing the company as frugally as possible.
Being incredibly frugal was the most important lesson I learned at Caskers. Since we never spent any money, we never had to worry about running out of cash. In addition, being frugal allowed us to offer incredible value to our customers: every dollar that we saved in terms of our own expenses was another dollar we could pass along to our customers in terms of lower prices.
Lesson #2. Be Relentless
When we launched Caskers, we had no marketing or advertising budget. As a result, I knew that we’d only be able to build brand awareness and acquire customers by (i) making a product that people loved and shared with their friends and (ii) getting editors at news publications to write about us.
I was relentless in hacking growth. Here are a few days I did it:

Ultimately, we were able to generate millions of dollars in revenue without spending a dime on customer acquisition.
Lesson #3: Be Experimental
We were focused on growing our community as fast as possible and experimented rapidly with new ideas. If something was working, we’d devote more of our time to it. If it wasn’t, we scrapped it and tried something new.
Here are a few examples of things we experimented with:
Experimenting with new ideas to market our company and sell spirits consumed a large amount of my time. Without experimenting though, Caskers would not have been a fun place to work. More importantly though, Caskers would not have grown as quickly as it did.
Lesson #4: Be Careful
Ultimately, a startup is the sum of all the things you do and all the things you don’t do. There were many things we didn’t do, some for better or worse.
Being a startup founder requires making live-or-die decisions with limited information and finite resources and under intense pressure. Making decisions quickly is important, but rushing into decisions is a mistake.
Lesson #5 Be Resolved
One of the greatest challenges I faced as a founder was to ignore the noise of other startups. While other startups were raising rounds seemingly effortlessly, it was difficult to accept, much less be proud of the fact that my company hadn’t raised a dime and didn’t employ anyone (other than my cofounder and me) for a long period of time. Looking back on it, it’s easy to wear our lean operation as a badge of honor but at the time, it felt like we were failing.
Each startup is unique and the best way to build a successful company is to capitalize on your strengths and overcome your weaknesses. I learned that I couldn’t be pressured by the success of other startups — I learned to be resolved so that I could build the company I wanted to build.
In terms of what I’ve learned, in terms of the experiences I’ve had, and in terms of the friendships I’ve formed, starting, growing and selling Caskers has been the greatest experience of my life. So Far.
About Me: I was the cofounder and CEO of @Caskers. Now I’m the founder and CEO of Native. Follow me on twitter.
I built @Caskers. Now I’m building @nativecosmetics.
Sharing our ideas and experiences
When Material Design was announced, I was impressed with Google’s efforts to raise their game in the design field. It’s something that Apple had always been ahead. Not anymore. I remember complaining a lot about Android design’s inconsistencies, lack of documentations, unattractive dark theme and overuse of the ambiguous Hamburger menu. Material Design solved a lot of that. It now offers a consistent design language that is lighter, more colorful, backed by solid guidelines that are well-considered.
But while the colors are pretty and the use of cards give a great sense of depth and tactility, I often asked myself, is this really better than Apple’s iOS Design as a lot of designers say it is? I’d like to give some of my thoughts on why I think it’s different, not necessarily better.
Let’s start with the 3 core principles in iOS: Clarity, Deference and Depth.
Clarity is about text legibility, obvious icons and good contrast. Clarity can also be platform-specific. What’s clear to iOS or Android users highly depend on what they’re familiar with. An icon may be instantly recognizable to iOS users but not to Android users, and vice versa.
Depth is another principle that both platforms share. But they approach the concept differently. iOS promotes blur and gradients while Android gives priority to drop shadows and the concept of paper.
Despite what most say, both platforms replicate real life in major ways. They’re skeuomorphic using blur, drop shadows and animations that use physics and realism of space. Skeuomorphic design was helpful to introduce new concepts using familiar metaphors, but the overly detailed textures and 3D effects definitely ran its course. As users, we outgrew it because technology is no longer so foreign to us. We’re at a phase where a leathered calendar or vinyl disc make less sense than a digital concept.
In both of these design languages, there are weaknesses.
For example, it looks off to have multiple layers of blur on top of each other. Also, the vibrancy added can be too much.
The card concept looks completely different on a circular screen. The card takes the full width. The alignment of the text feels off because there is a lot of unnecessary negative spacing. Lists are also hard to use on a circular screen since the corners hide a major part of the content.
These Android Wear faces look awesome though. This truly feels like the UI was made for a circular screen.




Deference is where it differs a lot. iOS gives total priority to the content while Android uses the concept of cards to make the content seem more tactile, thus losing important real estate in the left and right portions of the screen. The overwhelming colors also take priority over the content.
The FAB (floating action button) hides the content and gets in the way of the interactions.
Inversely in iOS, the focus is more on the content. The color of the UI is more neutral and contextual (they change based on the content). Vibrant colors are used minimally, mostly for actionable items.

There has been a long debate on whether we should use the Hamburger menu. That debate is far from over. Even Apple sparsely use it in their designs.
But it’s safe to say that we generally see them more in Android since Material Design encourages them.
iOS favors the Tab bar for navigation. Interestingly, LukeW pointed out that obvious always wins. Facebook switched to the Tab bar for iOS and they saw an important increase in user engagement.

But there are situations where the Hamburger menu can be a good idea, like when your most important content is your front page. Options inside it need to be secondary, like settings and logout.
Material Design uses colors prominently. Yes, they’re pretty. So was the Flat UI color palette. We can all agree that pastel colors look very nice in most situations, unlike the flashy ones that come by default in CSS or Xcode.
But Material Design uses those colors in their header, sometimes even to replace content. When you have a lot of competing colors, it de-prioritizes other elements.
Colors do have meanings, but those meanings can be quite limited (E.G. red means alert, yellow means warning, etc). Colors do express a brand, but branding shouldn’t be front and center in the UI of your app. In fact, the App Icon is the place where branding is most appropriate. So before you absolutely want to use a color alone in your header, you might want to consider something more expressive. Something that explains exactly what your app is about.
Again, that may make sense in Android, but not in iOS.

I have to admit that I used to think that having one design language that is consistent across all platforms is the best way to go. But unfortunately that lead to designing an Android app using the iOS design language. It made sense from my point of view, but ultimately it was bad for the users. Android users are simply not familiar with iOS.
Material Design’s goal to unify all platforms is a valiant effort, better than anything I’ve seen in this respect. But is it really the best way to go?
Is the Card concept really working on Android wear, which sometimes has a circular screen? It doesn’t seem like the language considered the devices first. Instead, it feels like an afterthought.
If you look at the Apple Watch, the design was completely rethought for the Watch. This means that there are new UI paradigms that had to be considered specifically for the Force Touch, the Digital Crown, wrist detection and the black bezel.
Everything from how the Material should be manipulated and elevated to how the colors should be combined is explained in their guide.
The good side of having strict style guides is that it’s hard to go wrong. It’s like Bootstrap. It provides a consistent and convenient system. The bad side is that it limits creativity and will make most apps homogeneous.

Don’t get me wrong, there are a lot of things that Material Design does right. It just seems like every designer sings praises without truly considering the weaknesses.
For one, their new Design spec is world-class, giving guidance on a variety of design topics that will benefit you beyond the scope of Material Design.
The concept of cards is one that generally works well across the board. It’s flexible and modular. It can definitely work with Web — designers have been using them way before Mobile came along. But I believe that the smaller the screen is, the less it makes sense.
As I mentioned before, pastel colors were hardly a new thing. But the Flat UI trend and Material Design really popularized it. We’re going back to the basics in order to achieve harmonious colors and beautiful typography. That’s a great thing. The more we know about the foundation of design, the better we can shape the pillars that come on top of it.
The animations in Material Design are elegant and delightful, albeit not as innovative as people make them out to be. Before iOS 7 came, transitional interfaces were still a fairly new concept. I’m glad that both guides are promoting smoother, more progressive animations to guide our users rather than scream at them for attention.
There will never be a perfect design language or template. The purpose of this piece is not to discourage one or the other, but to offer perspective their strengths and weaknesses. Design is about picking the best for the intent. So go ahead, experiment and see what works for your product. Just don’t forget to consider the people and devices that you’re designing for.
I wrote a few things about iOS, Android and code. You can find me on Twitter at @MengTo. Thanks for reading!
I design, code and write. @mengto
The most important news related to Android, Tech and everything else…

10) Always get the full story before making a decision.
9) It's incredibly easy to 'flip the switch' and start writing people off after a few bad experiences. Resist at all costs. You were bumbling once too. You made poor decisions. You learn and grow, and so does everybody else.
8) Sweep up the crumbs. Wipe the tables. Turn off the lights. Plug the holes that need plugging—even if it's menial, even if nobody will know you did it. Do it in service of the product, the company, and this wondrous, magical thing you are all building together.
7) Recognize you can't do everything. Close your eyes, fall backwards, and learn to trust.
6) Clearly, there is a more efficient way to do the things you do. How? Ponder that on your daily drive home.
5) Figure out which people rely on you and how you can help them be self-sufficient. You may feel important having a monopoly on salmon provisions, but if the whole village learns how to fish, it'll free you up to do something else. Like figuring out how to grow wheat. Or how to domesticate those cute wolf-pups.
4) Don't say anything if it's not actually contributing to the discussion. Your voice is not so melodious that it absolutely must be heard.
3) Making the best decision is not as important as putting in the right processes to ensure that the best decisions get made.
2) Dole out thanks and encouragement like you dole out opinions.
1) Above all, this: never, ever get in the way. It's better to twiddle your thumbs and squint up at the clouds than to obstruct progress for the sake of that stupid, childish thing called ego.
This is a personal list, and perhaps gently biased by what I do (manage designers) and where I work (Facebook) and how the imprint of many talented others have affected me. I don't claim to do all these things well nor every day. But this is the little voice that greets me in the morning, the whisper at the end of each day, the shadowy outline of some dazzling ideal that I catch a glimpse of every once in a blue moon. This is the aspiration. This is the manifesto.
Product design director @ Facebook. Self-professed tyro and lover of food, games, words. Follow me as @joulee or on  www.juliezhuo.com
A collection of essays by Julie Zhuo on design, building products, and observing life.

“If it turns out that this is incurable, would you marry me?” is not your traditional marriage proposal, but then again, Andy and I haven’t lived traditional lives.

Andy and I first met after literally running into each other at a White House reception honoring the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community in June of 2012. I was fortunate enough to have been invited after coming out publicly as a transgender woman while serving as student body president at American University just a month before. Andrew, 26 at the time, had come out as a transgender man several years prior and was now a leading LGBT health policy advocate in Washington, DC.
I hadn’t given our clumsy “meeting” at the White House much thought until I received a charming and suave Facebook message from that handsome guy two months later. His friends now tell me that he spent hours writing and re-writing the short message, in which he asked me out for coffee or drinks. After several online conversations and a few more chance encounters while I interned at the White House, we finally managed to find some time to go out for dinner.
We quickly found that we had far more in common than our transgender history, no doubt an important component of our identities, but still only one part. We both had a passion for law and politics, a love of “trash television” as he would call it, a desire to travel, and incessant need to be right. We both got involved in politics after an intense interest in film. We both loved Star Wars, although his love dwarfed anything I could muster. And we both had an obnoxious affinity for baby-talk and nicknames, he was the “big bean,” to my “little bean.” I still maintain that I certainly had the better deal: he was generous, loving, smart, funny, and enjoyed just the perfect mix of hard work and play. Many of the traits I’d find common in people from his beloved home state of Wisconsin.
In no time we were attached at the hip. Just a few weeks into our relationship he accompanied my family and me on a trip to Barbados. I quickly became part of his family and he quickly became part of mine. In no time, he was my partner and my best friend. To top it off, we even ended up becoming colleagues, when I joined him to work at the Center for American Progress. We began to talk about our future together, believing that it stretched far beyond anything we could imagine.
Our relationship took on a whole new dimension when Andrew was diagnosed with oral cancer in his tongue in September of 2013. I thought and hoped that the succeeding few months would be the toughest that we would have to endure for some time. In October, Andy underwent a twelve-hour surgery to remove part of his tongue and reconstruct it with a graft from his arm. Just as he relearned how to talk and eat, he had to undergo an intense regimen of radiation and chemotherapy that left him in so much pain that he could barely breath without a stabbing sensation in his mouth.
And then in April, he was proclaimed “cancer free!” As frightening and as stressful as that experience was, it gave us a bond that few couples our age develop so quickly. When we received the positive results in April, we knew we were not totally out of the woods yet, but we began to start to plan for our lives ahead.
But then the world that he had rebuilt after his first diagnosis came crashing back down in July of 2014 when he developed a mild, but persistent cough and chest pain. After several tests and a short hospital stay, the news came back like a punch in the gut: Andy’s cancer had returned and had spread to the lungs.
It was in the 24 hours after this news that Andy asked me, “If it turns out that this is incurable, would you marry me?” Of course the answer was yes. Andy had always wanted to get married, but prior to this new diagnosis, there was never any rush. He was only 28 and I was just out of college.
When we got the news that the illness was “life shortening,” as doctors say, his soul was understandably crushed. At the time, we were told that with treatment, he would probably have about a year left.
The next two weeks were a blur of silence, disbelief, and crying. Lots and lots of crying. Crying about the fear of death. Crying because he wouldn’t be able to see his family and friends grow up. Crying because, as he said, “he wouldn’t be around to say ‘I love you, bean,” or ‘I’m proud of you, bean.’”
And as the crying gave way to determination — determination to both live as long as possible and as much as possible — we decided to move forward with a wedding.
Andy was scheduled to start chemotherapy in the next few weeks in order to perpetuate his life. Because we thought we were operating with a year left, we tentatively set our wedding for mid-October. Both of us had always wanted a fall wedding anyway; the colors, the temperatures, and, for a DC couple, the lack of humidity were all appealing.

But on Thursday, August 14th, the third full day of Andrew’s second stay at our local hospital and two weeks before he was supposed to start treatment, one doctor threw a wrench into our plans and cold water on Andy’s hopes.
“I’m saying you might not make it to treatment,” the doctor said.
These were the first words I heard as I walked into Andy’s hospital room after taking a shower back at our apartment. As I came around the corner, I saw the stunned look on Andy’s face.
“So you think I may only have two weeks?” Andy asked, his face as white as the Wisconsin snow he may never see again.
“Yes,” the doctor continued and then paused. There was silence. I wasn’t quite sure where he was going next. He seemed to be deep in concentration, which would make sense given the gravity of the news he had just delivered.
“Hold on, there is a fly. Let me kill it.” He lifted his hands up, getting ready to smack the fly to death. The silence continued, only broken by a loud clap.
The body of the fly fell to the floor. The doctor paused again, said “hold on, let me pick it up,” as he slowly bent over, lifted the fly’s body, and threw it in the trash.
I wanted to scream at the doctor’s coldness, but I was stunned into silence by both the news and the indifference with which it was delivered.
After 45 seconds, which naturally felt like an hour, Andy, who couldn’t bare awkwardness, finally broke the silence and said to the doctor, “nice job.”
Eventually, the doctor continued. He instructed us that one of Andy’s lungs was failing at a rapid rate. “You need to decide whether you will want to go on a respirator. Just know, though, given your condition, if you go on a respirator, you will likely never be able to be taken off. And to put you on a respirator, you will have to be sedated, and, given your condition, you will likely never wake up.”
Moments later, another doctor came in and apologized profusely. It seems she had over-hydrated Andy after thinking his heart was racing from a lack of fluids. The doctor who had just delivered Andy’s “two-weeks notice,” seemed surprised and slightly relieved that there was a potentially reversible reason for the episode. The cardiologist prescribed some medications and reduced his fluid intake. Sure enough, Andy rebounded and by that afternoon was better than he had been since being admitted to the hospital in the first place.
As the two doctors left his room, we were confused. Did Andy have two weeks left or was his rapid decline of this morning merely a temporary problem that was easily fixed? Unsure, Andy turned to me and said, “Two weeks? I’m not ready for this ‘A Walk To Remember’ shit.” He had been fighting to live, but now it seemed he was merely fighting for a year.
Over the next few hours, neither doctor returned to our room with any more information. We asked any medical professional who entered our room for an update, from the nurses, to the palliative care team, to the young hospitalist. No one could provide much clarity as to what we were looking at in that moment. The general consensus was that Andy didn’t look like someone with two weeks left. In fact, by that evening, he was stable enough that the decision was made to discharge Andy in the next few days.
The next day, after Andy’s mother had suggested moving up the wedding, I broached the subject with him. He seemed to receive the idea well, although with concern that moving the date meant something about his prognosis. I explained that we weren’t moving the date because his prognosis had changed, but rather that the chemotherapy would take more out of him than we anticipated. Determined to reach the wedding, he said, “Let’s do it.”

The first full day back at the apartment, our friend and colleague Bishop Gene Robinson, the first openly gay bishop in any major Christian denomination, came by our apartment to discuss the possibility of a wedding. After talking with Bishop Gene for about an hour, we decided to move forward with a wedding that weekend, then just five days away.
Bishop Gene, as well as several close friends, offered to do all the planning, logistics, and organizing for the wedding. All we had to do was to get the marriage certificate, for me to buy my dress, and to make the occasional decision. Given Andy’s limitations, we decided that we would host the wedding on the roof of our apartment building, a beautiful space for about fifty that has magnificent 360 degree views of Washington, DC.
Over the next several days, as preparations for the wedding continued, Andy’s situation deteriorated. With each passing day, he could walk less and required a little more oxygen. He slept more and more. Daily tasks that once took five minutes for Andy, now took thirty minutes or an hour with the help of multiple people. Eventually, eating became a labor for him, taking him four hours to down fifteen spoonfuls of an ice-cream/medicine mix.
The only respite from the constant struggle to keep him nourished and hydrated came when I would talk with him about the wedding. You could tell he was trying his hardest to stay awake and alert for those conversations.
A few days earlier, Bishop Gene had sent us a draft of the wedding ceremony based on the Episcopal Church’s service. With Andy’s permission, I went through and edited it for us. I removed any mention of death in the ceremony and replaced it with “forever and ever.” Given his condition, I also reduced the amount of lines we had to speak to three simple sentences:
“I do.”
“That is my solemn vow.”
And, “Please accept this ring as a symbol of my abiding love.”
I knew he would not be able to remember these lines, so I wrote them out, as well as the last sentences before them. After working on the service for about an hour, I came out of our bedroom and asked him if we could go over it.
By this time, Andy was sleeping most of the day. His activities were looking less like someone with ten or even two months left, and more like someone who had a week or two. I tried reading the entire service to him, but he fell asleep pretty quickly. When he awoke, I decided to only read to him his parts and the sentences before his lines, including the line, “Will you honor and love her forever and ever?”
After I asked him if he was okay with that and told him that I had made a cheat sheet so he didn’t have to memorize anything, he started to drift off to sleep again. As his head began to fall back and his dreams came again, I heard him mumbling. I wasn’t sure if he needed something, so I walked over to his chair and leaned in.
He kept mumbling the same thing over and over again. I leaned in further to hear him more clearly, “forever and ever, forever and ever, forever and ever…”

The morning of our wedding — August 24, 2014 — came without incident. No shortness of breath. His eating had marginally improved. The weather, which had initially been forecast to be rainy, turned out to be the nicest day of the month. Mid-80s, sunny, just the right amount of breeze. Our families had come in from out of town. Old friends and new friends were ready and excited. It was turning out to be a beautiful, albeit bittersweet day.
I was getting ready in our neighbor’s apartment across the hall when about an hour before the ceremony one of Andy’s best friends knocked on the door. He was out of breath and clearly shaken.
“Andy just had an episode. He started to collapse and go unconscious when he was moving from his recliner to his wheelchair. He is awake and his vitals are okay right now, but we called the police and the EMT’s are on their way.” Luckily, my brother, a radiation oncologist, had offered to be with Andy while he got dressed for the wedding and was there to help.
With my hair up and my wedding dress still hanging on the wall, I ran over to our apartment. I found Andy in the recliner with my brother and our friends around him. I walked up and he apologized, “I’m sorry, are you mad at me?”
“Of course not, beanie,” my nickname for him, “Of course I’m not mad at you.”
As we heard the sirens approaching our building from the outside, my brother asked Andy several questions to ensure he hadn’t had a stroke.
“What is your name?”
“Andrew Cray.”
“Where are we?”
“My apartment in Washington, DC.”
“What is today?”
He got the date wrong by a few days, but also answered, “my wedding day.”
The EMT’s entered the apartment and made their way through the medical equipment and wedding supplies. With the caterer preparing the small amount of food for our wedding in the next room, the EMTs performed an EKG and consulted with my brother. Andy was adamant that he did not want to go into the hospital, knowing what that would mean for our wedding and for his chances at chemotherapy. With his vitals normal, the EMT’s acquiesced.
As they left, I asked Andy if he wanted to move the wedding into the apartment or to cancel it all together. He shook his head and said, “No, this is happening.”
As I walked back across the hall, my brother informed me that he wasn’t sure Andy could make it up to the roof in his wheelchair, but that we would see how he did over the next half an hour.
But my Andy rallied. With the help of three people, Andy was able to get into his dress clothes and, with oxygen in tow, he made it up to the roof.
I exited the elevator just as Andy was being wheeled onto the rooftop patio. As the elevator door slid open, I could see the back of Andy’s wheelchair moving down the narrow path to the opening on our roof where our wedding was to be held. As he approached the fifty family members, both blood and chosen, they started to applaud for him, unaware that just an hour earlier, EMT’s were in our apartment ready to take him to the hospital.
Clearly feeling as though he had conquered the world, Andy lifted his arm in triumph and gave the group a big thumbs up, his trademark. After they quickly switched Andy from the portable to stationary oxygen supply, I made my way out to the roof on my father’s arm.
I had no idea what my wedding was going to look like. Our friends had put it all together for us in five days with hardly anything more than a color preference from us. And it was beautiful. The bouquets included my favorite flowers — purple orchids and blue hydrangeas — a fact that was unknown by the friend who ordered them. Andy was stationed under a white tent surrounded by flowers and sitting in front of our dream officiate, Bishop Gene Robinson.
As I approached Andy, I could see him starting to choke up. We had always talked about getting married and he had asked me several times if I thought we would some day.
My mother says that it was clear Andy loved me from the first time we met and clearly always wanted to spend the rest of his life with me. I don’t know about that, but what I do know is that we were committed to each other for life long before we got married. Our ceremony on that day merely formalized, before family and by the state, what was already a reality between us. We had been through so much together. We were already bound together by both the superficial, like our love of reality television, and the deep, like our mutual commitment to equality and social justice. We had each walked beside the other during some of the most trying times in our lives.
Fortunately, we got through the ceremony without any problems. We exchanged our rings and committed ourselves to one another. He had forgotten the cheat sheet downstairs, so he improvised his lines. Shortening them so they wouldn’t make him short of breath or cause him to cough.
After taking a few pictures and receiving a few hugs, Andy was exhausted and decided to go back to our apartment with a few of his friends. I remained on the roof with our remaining guests for another hour and then went back downstairs to be with my new husband.
The first thirty-six hours of our marriage were a lot like the previous thirty-six. There was nagging over his food intake, a lot of sleeping, and a boatload of comforting reality television.
What was different was that Andy had three more episodes like the one he had just an hour before the wedding. Each time, he was about to move from his recliner to his wheelchair or from his wheelchair to the recliner. Andy was a nervous person and would clearly get anxious before these moves. As he got anxious, he was unable to adjust his breathing, would get light-headed, and begin to pass out. As we would temporarily up his oxygen and call his name, he would return to us. Within seconds, he would shake himself out of it and look at me. In typical Andy fashion, he would say, “I’m so sorry, love, are you mad at me?”
“No beanie, I’m not mad at you at all. I love you so much,” I would reply each time.

The next morning, by the grace of God, Andy was able to make it down to the car for the forty-minute drive to Johns Hopkins Hospital with me and his ex-girlfriend, Heather, to begin treatment that was meant to perpetuate his life.
We arrived at Hopkins to first meet with his oncologist prior to starting chemotherapy. As the doctor walked into the exam room, we knew things had changed. He hadn’t yet known about Andy’s episodes, but the blood work that was done the previous week showed some concerning numbers. The doctor warned us that we may not be able to proceed with chemotherapy today, but that he would send Andy up to the infusion room for some liquid, since he was, despite my attempts to prevent it, clearly dehydrated. After a few hours, he would re-evaluate Andy and determine what, if any treatment, he could give him. He also ordered more blood work and told us that he would come meet with us in the infusion center after the tests came back.
As we waited in the center for more information, it was clear that Andy’s situation was getting worse. In just a matter of a few hours, his oxygen hunger had increased dramatically. I heard rumblings from the nurses outside our station that one of the patients would need to be admitted.
I stepped outside and approached his infusion nurse and asked her what was happening. She said that they were going to have to admit Andy today. Both of us had been told that being admitted would make it highly unlikely that he was healthy enough for any life-perpetuating medical care.
I offered to tell him the news that I knew would shatter him. As I walked back, I opened the curtain with the nurse following behind. I tried as gently as possible to tell him that they were going to admit him. Ever the optimist, he knew what that meant, but he didn’t give up hope. He talked about how they could try to stabilize him again so that he could be ready for chemotherapy. Just as he gave me a wink of assurance, the medical oncologist returned and informed us that some of the tests had come back and the concerning numbers had jumped higher.
A few minutes later, I met with the oncologist outside of Andy’s station. He said that intubation, or the process of putting Andy on a respirator, was possibly imminent. He asked if he had any wishes on that front. He didn’t have to say what that meant as the fly-killing doctor from two weeks ago had already painted the grim picture: if intubated, Andy would never be able to be weaned off, nor would he likely ever wake up. I asked the oncologist how long we had to have the conversation. After all, he had just been given the news that he was being admitted. Couldn’t I give him some time? “Unfortunately, no.”
After Andy had been “upgraded rooms,” as I had jokingly put it to him during the admittance process, I said that for “precautionary reasons,” we needed to talk about the question of intubation. The nurse brought us a blank advance directive and we sat down for the first extended conversation since our wedding: whether or not he would want his life continued in a persistent vegetative state.
He stared at the paper for a good ten minutes. He asked if we had to talk about it now, but Heather and I informed him that the doctor said we needed to, again “as a precaution.” He sat with his pen for another few minutes and finally marked the box that said, “If my doctors certify that I am in a persistent vegetative state… and there is no reasonable expectation that I will ever regain consciousness…Keep me comfortable and allow natural death to occur.”
I called our family and friends to ask them to travel to Baltimore to be with us. His mother, step-father, father, and my mother came immediately. For the next two days, a rotating group of ten to twenty people stuck by our side at the hospital. The same group, which had organized our celebration of love just three days before, stood by in a circle of love in his hospital room as he slept more and more.
A day after he was admitted, he was unconscious nearly all the time. Every once in a while, he would regain consciousness, smile at us, squeeze our hands, and ask that his oxygen be turned up. He would rotate his fingers with a look of urgency in his eyes signaling his desire for more oxygen. Each time, we would have to inform him that the oxygen was as high as it could go.
Wednesday the 27th was the last day Andrew was awake. Just before he went back to sleep for the final time, I told him, “I love you.” He raised his eyebrows and mustered the energy to say four words back. These words would be the only words he would speak that day and the last words he would physically speak ever. “I love you, too.”
We were told the next morning it was probably only a matter of time. And echoing a conversation I had the night before with one of our best friends, the nurse said that sometimes you have to lean in and tell the person that it is “okay to go” because they are afraid of disappointing people. The group of five people in his room looked at each other and all thought, “that is so Andy.” So one by one we all leaned in and told Andy that it was “okay to go.”
I was both the first and last person to convey this message to him. I leaned in both times and said, “I love you, beanie, I’m going to miss you every day, but it’s okay for you to go. No one is going to be mad at you.” I then slipped a handwritten note into his clenched fist, which by then had become fairly cold. “You are loved,” it read.
Three hours later, his vitals began to drop. I called for everyone in the lounge to come in. We all stood there as his oxygenation level — the key stat for someone battling cancer in the lungs — dropped from a reasonably health 95 to 85. Then to 75. Then to 65. His numbers were reaching fatal levels.
Crying, we gathered around Andy in that circle of love which remained constant throughout his final stay in the hospital. A rainbow of family — gay and straight, trans and cisgender — held tightly onto him. His breathing diminished. His heart rate slowed. And at 3:30 PM on Thursday the 28th, with the gifts from our wedding five days earlier still unwrapped back in our apartment, Andy passed away.
That night, the group, which gathered to plan our wedding, gathered to plan his funeral. Bishop Gene, who had officiated at our wedding, would preside. Those who had stood at his bedside with me would eulogize him. The family of relatives and friends would join together again to mourn his passing.

His service was held at St. Thomas’ Episcopal Church in Washington, DC on Saturday. Bishop Gene wore the same frocks that he wore at the wedding the weekend before; he explained that Sunday’s wedding was a celebration of life and love, and so too was today.
Tributes from all around the country began to flow in. From the Mayor of DC, officials at the White House, state and national equality organizations, and from friends, relatives, acquaintances, and total strangers around the world who had been touched by Andy’s story and his work.
Andy was one of the amazing few who could draw upon their own life to help others without actually talking about himself. He worked tirelessly to bring joy, meaning, health, and fulfillment to others lives. He had stood up to the intolerance and prejudice in the world to live authentically, only to have cancer end his life a few years after he began to live true to himself.
There are many lessons I take from his passing, but the biggest is that though we may feel invincible, we never know how much time we have left. Life is too short for outdated dogmas to impede our own pursuit of happiness. Despite growing up in a progressive family and with open-minded friends, the expectation from the outside world that we must live, love, and identify based on one fact at birth, kept Andrew inside of himself for too long.
In his early twenties he finally had the courage to be happy and complete. Getting cancer was not a choice. There was nothing that he could have done to avoid his ending. But our society’s prejudice that kept him from being complete for most of his life is a choice. For Andrew, and for all the people who simply want to make the most of their lives, let us make the choice to stop the hate and to let love, light, and authenticity flourish.
And yet despite this tragic end, it’s clear that Andy lived with more purpose and realness in 28 years than most find in 60 or 80 years. He loved and was loved. He befriended and mentored without regard for status or interest in gain. He gave others courage through the bravery he demonstrated; not just throughout his struggle with cancer over the last year, but also through the authenticity with which he lived his own life every day. Through his work, he helped open up health care to hundreds of thousands of LGBT Americans and spearheaded the national effort to ensure that transgender people can access the care they desperately need, but are too often denied.
Few, if any, have ever taught me as much as Andy did. He taught me about life, perseverance, compassion, optimism, fidelity, and passion. He was one of the most impressive people I’ve ever met, yet one of the humblest (it’s amazing he could tolerate me). Even in his final weeks, he cried less about his own luck or plight, but about the things he would no longer be able to do for others. That was Andy.
So thank you for coming into my life, my bean. So many medical professionals said, given your state, you shouldn’t have made it to the wedding. But you did. I don’t know if you held on for me or for you. But, in the end, you gave me the best gift anyone could ever ask for. Thank you for sending me that first Facebook message in August of 2012 and thank you for marrying me one year ago. But most of all, thank you for being you.
‘Tis strange how men find time to hate, When life is all too short for love; But we, away from our own kind, A different life can live and prove. And early on a summer’s morn, As I go walking out with you, We’ll help the sun with our warm breath To clear away the dew, My love, To clear away the morning dew.

Political nerd, LGBT advocate, Delawarean, AU alum, board member at Equality Delaware, LGBT Progress Staff.  All opinions are my own and inherently right ;)
Here there is hope, humor, and help as you deepen your connection to others, yourself, and to your work.

I was looking for a more effective way to consume all the content I save during the day and fit it inside my busy schedule. I mostly save articles I see on Medium (+ occasionally articles from big tech websites), and my bookmark section is growing almost daily. The only thing is that I have no time to read them all. Even by end of the day… I hate myself for this, because I’m missing so many great stories.
I was thinking someone could read the articles to me (if I can’t handle it myself)… Maybe some app? Text-to-audio?
On the other hand, I still want to feel the emotion of the story and not listen to some robot reading. Every. Word. Separately. With. No. Accent.
Sooooooo what now?

I listen to a lot of podcasts, shows or talks in the background while I work or when I walk to the office, and I think it could be awesome to do the same thing with my saved Medium articles — listen to them as audio instead of reading them as text.
The whole functionality allowing this feature could be handled inside the existing mobile app. There is no need for a standalone app.
How?
Let’s take a look on the existing Medium iOS app and its article detail screen. Focus on the white bar in the bottom of the screen, which is used to introduce features available for each article. You can see “bookmark,” “like” and “share” icons. What about adding one more icon that allows you to play the article as audio?
It fits perfectly with the overall style of the app and fits the existing usage pattern of having similar features at the bottom of the screen.


If you want play the article as audio, you can just tap this little icon to open the audio player, and that’s it. Happy listening!
Nice, huh? Let's focus on the technical side now…


You may be wondering where all the audio content could be made, what kind of text-to-voice software could be used in the background, etc. I think there is no need for such things. Writers could record themselves reading their own work and attach it to the story as an audio file.
Of course, adding an audio version of you article should not be required. Once you finish writing your story in the current version of the app, you are asked to add a few tags to help readers find your story. I think there is the best opportunity to ask for one more thing — a recording of your story.
Note: Users should not be pushed to record anything, but if they are asked to do something extra, they may feel they are improving their readers’ experience by allowing them to consume articles in a new way.
To give you a better idea about how it could look, I made a quick mockup to compare the current version and my version:

I also tried to design a recording screen using the existing UI style and colors. Again, the whole flow fits the existing style of the app. It’s a bit similar to adding tags, which is already something you can do.
All you have to do is press the microphone button and start reading. I was also thinking about adding some kind of indicator for highlighting words to help you maintain rhythm/speed while recording your story. But I wasn’t sure about the correct implementation. It may be confusing for users if they loose track on this indicator, and it could mess up their recording.
Once you finish recording, you can save it and go back to the “publish” screen, which will be in a different (finished) state. You can see the tags you selected and attach the audio file you just recorded. Hit “publish,” and your story is out…
Of course, this is just a quick concept I came up with in a few hours. But imagine how many things could be added soon or later. Just to mention a few of them:
Got more ideas? Feel free to add comments :)

Is it just me, or do you guys have the same problem? Let me know in comments or write a short response to this article. It would also be interesting so know what the Medium staff thinks. I’ll keep you posted in case they contact me.
— — — — — — — — — —
Let's be friends!
Ales Nesetril, UI/UX designer with passion for minimalism & simplicity, currently working for STRV between Prague and San Francisco.
Twitter, Dribbble, Behance, Instagram, Email
STRV is a top-tier, one-stop mobile app development shop working with top-tier startups from Y Combinator and 500Startups, among others, across offices in San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York and Prague.
User Interface Designer with passion for minimalism & simplicity, currently at @STRVcom — #ui/ux, #skateboarding, #electronicmusic, #ps3
The Medium Community







For more detailed reads of the sketches above:
Product design director @ Facebook. Self-professed tyro and lover of food, games, words. Follow me as @joulee or on  www.juliezhuo.com
A collection of essays by Julie Zhuo on design, building products, and observing life.


In this quick write-up, we’ll cover how to take advantage of your existing knowledge of features in Sublime Text and apply them to another powerful tool in your arsenal — the Chrome DevTools.
Thanks to several modern tools including DevTools, JSBin and Codepen relying on the excellent CodeMirror editor, keyboard bindings like those in Sublime Text are more readily available elsewhere than they have been.
Let’s assume for the rest of this write-up that we’ll primarily be working inside the DevTools Sources panel — a feature which, when paired with Workspaces gives you a powerful in-browser editor.


Very similar to Sublime, DevTools has a Goto “Anything” dialog. This can take you to a specific file, a line number or a method definition. You can bring up the Goto “Anything” search using Ctrl/Cmd + P. This lets you search/filter through files just by starting to type in the files name. To search for a method — such as a JavaScript method or a CSS selector, use Ctrl/Cmd + Shift + P and start typing in the method name.

`Ctrl` + `G` will toggle a dialog allowing you to jump to a specific line in a file. If you wish to go to a line in the current file, bring up the dialog and type in a colon followed by the line number you are interested in. For example, :25 will take you to line 25. If you wish to go to a line in a different file, type in the file name, a colon and then the line number (e.g app.js:25).
Go to end of a line: `Alt` + `Right` or `Cmd` + `Right`Go to the start of a line: `Alt` + `Left` or `Cmd` + `Left`

Go to the start of a file: `Alt` + `Up` or `Cmd` + `Up`Go to the end of a file: `Alt` + `Down` or `Cmd` + `Down`
Go one word left: `Ctrl`+ `Left` or `Alt` + `Left`Go one word right: `Ctrl` + `Right` or `Alt` + `Right`
Go up a line: `Up`Go down a line: `Down`

A caret is that blinking line that indicates where you’re typing at the moment. Similar to Sublime Text, DevTools can have as many carets as you want.
Adding multiple Carets
You can start playing with carets by opening any supported file in Sources, then selecting each line by holding down `Cmd`/`Alt` and clicking wherever you would like to add a new caret.
For example, if you have multi-line JavaScript that needs to be prefixed, edited or wrapped in quotes, multiple carets can make this a breeze.
The following steps will quickly get every line selected:
1. Click on the first line2. While holding down `⌘` and `Option`3. Drag your mouse through the rest of the lines
You should now have a cursor somewhere on each line.
Use multiple carets from the front of a line
Use `Cmd` + `←` ( `Alt` + `←` for Windows/Linux) to bring all cursors to the front of the line, and then hold down `Option` while using the arrow keys to jump by word. When in front of the file name, simply type in your prefix and you’re done!
Wrap with Quotes or Brackets
Highlight the words with `Cmd` + `Shift` + `←` ( `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `←` for Windows/Linux) and type an opening quote or bracket. Dev tools will wrap each word in the selected quote or bracket.
Column selection
Carets can similarly be used for selecting custom columns of text. Hold down `Alt` and then click and drag over the region of text you would like to select. DevTools will highlight the area and you can now copy or edit it as needed.
Carets and matching words
Carets can also be used for highlighting specific words. Select a word in your editor (it can be a variable, method, or anything really). DevTools will highlight other instances of this word with a border around them.
Now use `Cmd` + `D` (or `Alt` + `D`) and DevTools will highlight and place multiple cursors on the matching words. This is particularly useful during batch rename operations. Hitting D a few more time while still holding ⌘ selects the next instance of the selection found. By hitting ⌘, then D three times, you can select three iterations of the text.

When working with non-complex pieces of code, you might find it tricky to find corresponding opening and closing brackets with your naked eye. `Ctrl` + `M` allows you to instantly move your cursor there. Using it twice will jump to its opening or closing counterpart.

We know the importance of indentation. It helps keep our code readable and easy to understand. To increase or decrease the current line’s indent, use the shortcuts below:
Indent text: `Tab`Unindent text: `Shift` + `Tab`

If you need to comment/uncomment a piece of code, the same shortcuts you would use for this in Sublime Text also apply:
Comment text: `Cmd`/`Ctrl` + `/`Uncomment text: `Cmd`/`Ctrl` + `/` on the same section of text.
This works across all languages and works pretty well with lines or whole selections.

When typing values in the DevTools Sources panel, you’re presented with autocompletions as you type. If however you dismiss these and would like to manually toggle autocompletion, you can do so with:
`Ctrl` + `Space`

You can cut, copy and paste text using the same shortcuts you’re used to in other editors:
Cut: `Cmd` + `X`Copy: `Cmd` + `C`Paste: `Cmd` + `V`Undo: `Cmd` + `Z`Soft undo: `Cmd` + `U`Redo: `Cmd` + `Y`

Note: ⇞ and ⇟ are page up and page down. On an Apple keyboard, you can page up/down by holding fn + ↑/↓
In the Sources pane, you can select a numeric value and easily increment or decrement the value using your keyboard. Highlight the value and then:
Increment CSS unit by 1: `Option` + `↑`Decrement CSS unit by 1: `Option` + `↓`Increment CSS unit by 10: `Option` + `⇟`Decrement CSS unit by 10: `Option` + `⇟`
The Styles pane also supports shortcuts for incrementing/decrementing values.
Increment value: ↑Decrement value: ↓Increment by 10: ⇞ or ⇧↑Decrement by 10: ⇟ or ⇧↓Increment by 100: ⇧⇞Decrement by 100: ⇧⇟Increment by 0.1: ⌥↑Decrement by 0.1: ⌥↓

DevTools can now also preserve your position cursor history in Sources. This lets you cycle through your previous editing locations using Alt- and Alt+:

If you’ve found the above shortcuts helpful, you can pull most of them up via the DevTools settings menu. It looks a little like this:

The Settings page also allows you to configure how the editor behaves. This includes customizing the default indendation, toggling bracket matching, autocompletion and the display of whitespace characters.


Similar to your editor, the DevTools UI can also be customized (the theming for the syntax highlighting, the colors across each of the panels, the look of UI elements like tabs). Some of these themes make intelligent use of color to highlight the key pieces of UI in DevTools without taking your focus away from the code.
Some of our choice picks for DevTools themes are the following:
To install a theme:
Boom. You should be good to go. Themes can be found in a number of places, including the Web Store, DevThemez.com and GitHub.

DevTools also supports a few nice debugging helpers that can further augment your daily editing & debugging workflow. For instance, while debugging you can preview the inline values of JavaScript variables at the current point in time. Super powerful.

We hope you’ve found these DevTools tips helpful!.
Many of the SublimeText equivalents we’ve covered here work equally as well in other editors and we encourage you to spend time learning about the shortcuts in apps you use regularly. They’re powerful stuff and can make a HUUUGE difference to your workflow.
If you’re hungry for more and want to continue improving your workflow, grab Wes’ Sublime Text Book + Videos — use the code DEVTOOLS for $11 off. You can also check-out the first episode of Totally Tooling Tips for a look at Sublime Text plugins.
Heartz ❤
Addy Osmani and Wes Bos
Engineer at Google working with the Chrome & Polymer teams • Creator of TodoMVC, @Yeoman, Material Design Lite, Web Starter Kit• Passionate about web tooling
Engineering and technology articles for developers, written and curated by Googlers. The views expressed are those of the authors and don’t necessarily reflect those of Google.

It’s the break-up that nobody talks about.
The one that tears you apart in ways your high school boyfriends and hazy nights with strangers at the bar never really prepared you for.
The hardest goodbye.
Your college boyfriend might have promised you forever and always, but deep down, you knew that he never really meant it — and even if he did, it was only because he was just as naive as you were. There was always a hint of doubt in the back of your mind.
But you’ve never, ever looked into your best friend’s eyes and thought “Maybe one day, we’ll never speak again.”
You’re eight years old and bruised from falling off your bike, face-first onto solid concrete, bloody knees and scraped elbows, but she’s next to you, holding your hand.
You’re fifteen and you’ve locked yourself in the school bathroom, tears streaming down your face from your very first heartbreak, but she’s handing you tissues under the door, insisting that you skip sixth period together for a much needed ice cream break.
You’re eighteen and it’s your third night on campus, and you’re huddled together on the bottom bunk watching a rerun of Friends, and you tell her about how scared and lost and excited you are for the next four years, and she whispers back — me too.
You’re twenty-one and thirteen shots in, wondering if this is really how you should’ve celebrated your birthday, but she’s right behind you, holding back your hair as you regurgitate a night of regrets into the graffiti-ed stalls of the local dive.
You’re twenty-three and waving goodbye from the train platform, as she stares out the window and your eyes meet — and you’re both off to cities on opposite coasts, knowing that the miles and the times zones that separate you will inevitably tear you apart.
Then before you know it, you’re twenty-five and so caught up, lost in your busy schedule of nine-to-five meetings, soul cycling, and a disastrous string of first dates. You’re checking your phone between errands when you see a text from a number you haven’t dialed in years, saying — “Hey, I’m in town, let’s catch up over coffee?”
So you’re sitting across the table and staring at the girl who first met your gaze across the brightly-decorated first grade classroom, who walked over to your desk and declared, “Let’s be best friends.”
She looks up from the murky brown swirl of half and half dissolving in the bitter cup of watered-down espresso. It’s the same blue eyes and freckled smile you’ve always known—and she laughs quietly as she tells you about this guy she’s seeing, and this project she’s working on, and this juice cleanse that she’s planning to try before her trip to Cabo — but it’s all a flutter of small talk and meaningless words.
You smile politely and look away.
The drifting dust sparkles in the dim cafe light, and the skies outside are a musty shade of grey.
All you can think about is skinned knees, mint chocolate chip ice cream, Ross and Rachel, birthday shots, graduation smiles, and that feeling of losing each other forever.
Everything is almost exactly the same as it once was.
But the coffee tastes burnt, and the afternoon fades, and you’re nothing more than strangers once again.
Avid lover of green tea, old films, classic novels, and the 1950s. Always trying to get ahead of light. I stand for #feminism and #womenintech.
Sharing our ideas and experiences

I visited Google a few weeks ago and, after almost getting arrested, my mind was blown.
First, Claudia wandered into the garage where they were actually making or fixing the driverless cars. When they finally realized she was wandering around, security had to escort her out.
We got scared and we thought we were going to get in trouble or thrown out.
Then we met with a friend high up at Google and learned some of the things Google was working on.
Nothing was related to search. Everything was related to curing cancer (a bracelet that can make all the cancer cells in your body move towards the bracelet), automating everything (cars just one of those things), Wi-Fi everywhere (Project Loon) and solving other “billion person problems”.
A problem wasn’t considered worthy unless it could solve a problem for a billion people.
So now Alphabet is aligning itself towards this strategy: a holding company that owns and invests in other companies that can solve billion person problems.
It’s not divided up by money. It’s divided up by mission.
I want to do this in my personal life also.
Just analyzing Larry Page’s quotes from the past ten years is a guidebook for “billion person success” and for personal success.
Here are some of his quotes (in bold):
“If you’re changing the world, you’re working on important things. You’re excited to get up in the morning.”
To have well-being in life you need three things: A) a feeling of competence or growth. B) good emotional relationships. C) freedom of choice.
Being able to wake up excited in the morning is an outcome of well-being.
Feeling like every day you are working on a billion-person problem will give you those three aspects of well-being.
At the very least, when I wake up I try to remember to ask: Who can I help today?
Because I’m a superhero and this is my secret identity.
“Especially in technology, we need revolutionary change, not incremental change.”
Too often we get stuck in “good enough”. If you build a business that supports your family and maybe provides for retirement then that is “good enough”.
If you write a book that sells 1000 copies then that is “good enough.”
You ever wonder why planes have gotten slower since 1965? The Dreamliner 787 is actually slower than the 747.
That’s ok. It’s good enough to get people across the world and save on fuel costs.
It’s only the people who push past the “good enough syndrome” that we hear about: Elon Musk building a space ship. Larry Page indexing all knowledge. Elizabeth Holmes potentially diagnosing all diseases with a pin prick.
Isaac Asimov wrote classic science fiction like “The Foundation Series” but it wasn’t good enough for him. He ended up writing 500 more books, writing more books than anyone in history.
Larry Page keeps pushing so that every day he wakes up knowing he’s going to go past “good enough” that day.
What does your “good enough” day look like. What’s one thing that moves you past that?
“My job as a leader is to make sure everybody in the company has great opportunities, and that they feel they’re having a meaningful impact and are contributing to the good of society.”
Whenever I’ve managed companies and have had the small opportunity to be a leader I’ve judged my success on only one thing:
Does the employee at night go home and call his or her parents and say, “guess what I did today!”
I’m not sure this always worked. But I do think Larry Page lifts all his employees to try to be better versions of themselves, to try to surpass him, to try and change the world.
If each employee can say, “who did I help today” and have an answer, then that is a good leader.
Empowering others, empowers you.
“Lots of companies don’t succeed over time. What do they fundamentally do wrong? They usually miss the future.”
The stock market is near all time highs. And yet every company in the original Dow Jones market index (except for GE) has gone out of business.
Even US Steel, which built every building in the country for an entire century, has gone bankrupt.
Never let the practical get in the way of the possible.
It’s practical to focus on what you can do right now.
But give yourself time in your life to wonder what is possible and to make even the slightest moves in that direction.
We’re at maybe 1% of what is possible. Despite the faster change, we’re still moving slow relative to the opportunities we have. I think a lot of that is because of the negativity… Every story I read is Google vs someone else. That’s boring. We should be focusing on building the things that don’t exist.
Sometimes I want to give up on whatever I’m working on. I’m not working on major billion person problems.
And sometimes I think I write too much about the same thing. Every day I try to think, “What new thing can I write today” and I actually get depressed when I can’t think of something totally new.
But I am working on things that I think can help people. And if you are out side of people’s comfort zones, if you are breaking the normal rules of society, people will try to pull you down.
Larry Page didn’t want to be defined by Google for his entire life. He wants to be defined by what he hasn’t yet done. What he might even be afraid to do.
I wonder what my life would be like if I started doing all the things I was afraid to do. If I started defining my life by all the things I have yet to do.
“Many leaders of big organizations, I think, don’t believe that change is possible. But if you look at history, things do change, and if your business is static, you’re likely to have issues.”
Guess which company had the original patent that ultimately Larry Page derived his own patent (that created google) from?
Go ahead. Think a second. Guess.
An employee of this company created the patent and tried to get them to use it to catalog information on the web.
They refused.
So Robin Li, an employee of The Wall Street Journal, quit the newspaper of capitalism (who owned his patent), moved to China (a communist country), and created Baidu.
And Larry Page modified the patent, filed his own, and created Google.
And the Wall Street Journal got swallowed up by Rupert Murdoch and is dying a slow death.
“I think as technologists we should have some safe places where we can try out new things and figure out the effect on society.”
A friend of mine is writing a novel but is afraid to publish it. “Maybe it will be bad,” he told me.
Fortunately we live in a world where experimentation is easy. You can make a 30 page novel, publish it on Amazon for nothing, use an assumed name, and test to see if people like it.
Heck, I’ve done it. And it was fun.
Mac Lethal is a rapper who has gotten over 200 million views on his YouTube videos. Even Ellen had him on her show to demonstrate his skills.
I asked him, “do you get nervous if one of your videos gets less views than others?”
He told me valuable advice: “Nobody remembers your bad stuff. They only remember your good stuff.”
I live by that.
“If we were motivated by money, we would have sold the company a long time ago and ended up on a beach.”
Larry Page and Sergey Brin wanted to be academics. When they first patented Google, they tried to sell to Yahoo for $1 million (ONE MILLION DOLLARS).
When Yahoo laughed them out the door, they tried to sell to Excite for $750,000.
Excite laughed them out the door. Now an ex-employee of Google is the CEO of Yahoo. And the founder of Excite works at Google. Google dominates.
Money is a side effect of trying to help others. Trying to solve problems. Trying to move beyond the “good enough”.
So many people ask: “how do I get traffic?” That’s the wrong question.
If you ask every day, “How did I help people today?” then you will have more traffic and money than you could have imagined.
“Invention is not enough. Tesla invented the electric power we use, but he struggled to get it out to people. You have to combine both things: invention and innovation focus, plus the company that can commercialize things and get them to people.”
Everyone quotes the iconic story of Thomas Edison “failing” 10,000 times to get the electric lightbulb working.
I put failing in quotes because he was doing what any scientist does. He does many experiments until one works.
But what he did that was truly remarkable was convince New York City a few weeks later to light up their downtown using his lights.
The first time ever a city was lit up at night with electricity.
That’s innovation. That’s how the entire world got lit up.
“If you say you want to automate cars and save people’s lives, the skills you need for that aren’t taught in any particular discipline. I know — I was interested in working on automating cars when I was a Ph.D. student in 1995.”
Too often we get labeled by our degree and our job titles. Larry Page and Elon Musk were computer science majors. Now they build cars and space ships.
David Chang was a competitive golfer as a kid, majored in religious studies in college, and then had random gopher jobs in his 20s.
The gopher jobs all happened to be in restaurants so he became familiar with how the business was run.
Then he started probably the most popular restaurant in NYC, momofoku. A dozen or so restaurants later, he is one of the most successful restauranteurs in history.
Peter Thiel worked as a lawyer in one of the top law firms in NY. When he quit in order to become an entrepreneur, he told me that many of his colleagues came up to him and said, “I can’t believe you are escaping”.
Escaping the labels and titles and hopes that everyone else has for us is one of the first steps in Choosing Ourselves for the success we are meant to have.
We define our lives from our imagination and the things we create with our hands.
“It really matters whether people are working on generating clean energy or improving transportation or making the Internet work better and all those things. And small groups of people can have a really huge impact.”
What I love about this quote is that he combines big problems with small groups.
A small group of people created Google. Not Procter & Gamble. Or AT&T.
Even at Apple, when Steve Jobs wanted to create the Macintosh, he moved his small group to a separate building so they wouldn’t get bogged down in the big corporate bureaucracy that Apple was becoming.
Ultimately, they fired him for being too far from the corporate message.
Years later, when Apple was failing, they brought him back. What did he do? He cut most of the products and put people into small groups to solve big problems.
Before his death he revolutionized the movie industry, the computer industry, the music industry, TVs, and now even watches (watch sales have plummeted after the release of the Apple Watch).
All of this from a guy who finished one semester of studying calligraphy in college before dropping out.
Studying the history of Apple is like studying a microcosm of the history of how to create big ideas. Larry Page is recreating this with his new corporate structure.
“We don’t have as many managers as we should, but we would rather have too few than too many.”
The 20th century was the century of middle-class corporatism. It even became a “law” called “The Peter Principle” — everyone rises to their level of incompetence.
One of the problems society is having now is that the entire middle layer of management is being demoted, outsourced, replaced by technology, and fired.
This is not a bad or a good thing (although it’s scary). But it’s a return to the role of masters and apprentices without bureaucracy and paperwork in the middle.
It’s how things get done. When ideas go from the head into action with few barriers in the middle.
To be a successful employee, you have to align your interests with those of the company, come up with ideas that further help the customers, and have the mandate to act on those ideas, whether they work or not.
That’s why the employee who wrote much of the code inside the Google search engine, Craig Silverstein, is now a billionaire.
Where is he now? He’s an employee at online education company, The Khan Academy.
“If you ask an economist what’s driven economic growth, it’s been major advances in things that mattered — the mechanization of farming, mass manufacturing, things like that. The problem is, our society is not organized around doing that.”
Google is now making advances in driverless cars, delivery drones, and other methods of automation.
Everyone gets worried that this will cost jobs. But just look at history. Cars didn’t ruin the horse industry. Everyone simply adjusted.
TV didn’t replace books. Everything adjusted. The VCR didn’t shut down movies.
The Internet didn’t replace face to face communication (well, the jury is still out).
“What is the one sentence summary of how you change the world? Always work hard on something uncomfortably exciting!”
Not everyone wants to create a driverless car. Or clean energy. Or solve a billion person problem.
But I have a list of things that are uncomfortably exciting to me.
They are small, stupid things. Like I’d like to write a novel. Or perform standup comedy. Or maybe start another business based on my ideas for helping people.
Every day I wake up a tiny bit afraid. But I also try to push myself a little closer in those directions. I know then that’s how I learn and grow.
Sometimes I push forward. Sometimes I don’t. I want to get more comfortable with being uncomfortable.
“I do think there is an important artistic component in what we do. As a technology company I’ve tried to really stress that.”
Nobody knows what the definition of Art is.
How about: something that doesn’t exist except in the imagination, that you then bring out into the real world that has some mix of entertainment, enlightenment, and betterment.
I don’t know. Something like that.
Certainly the iPad is a work of art. And the iPad has created works of art. And when I first saw a driverless car I thought, “that’s beautiful”.
I’m going to try and put my fingerprint on something today. And maybe it will be art.
“The idea that everyone should slavishly work so they do something inefficiently so they keep their job — that just doesn’t make any sense to me. That can’t be the right answer.”
We’ve been hypnotized into thinking that the “normal life” is a “working life”.
If you don’t “go to work” then you must be sick or on the tiny bit of vacation allotted to you each year.
What if everything you did you can inject a little bit of leisure, a little bit of fun into it.
I have fun writing, except when I think I have to meet a deadline (work). I have fun making a business that people actually use except when I think about money too much (work).
When you are at the crossroads and your heart loves one path and doesn’t love the other, forget about which path has the money and the work, take the path you love.
“We want to build technology that everybody loves using, and that affects everyone. We want to create beautiful, intuitive services and technologies that are so incredibly useful that people use them twice a day. Like they use a toothbrush. There aren’t that many things people use twice a day.”
What a great idea for a list of the day!
What are ten things that can be invented that people would use twice a day?
“You need to invent things and you need to get them to people. You need to commercialize those inventions. Obviously, the best way we’ve come up with doing that is through companies.”
I was speaking to Naveen Jain, who made his billions on an early search engine, InfoSpace.
He just started a company to mine rare earth minerals on the Moon.
But his real goal is extra-planetary colonization.
Somehow we got around to the question of why have a company in the middle of that. He has billions. He can just go straight for the colonization part.
He said, “Every idea has to be sustainable. Profitability is proof that an idea is sustainable.”
“You may think using Google’s great, but I still think it’s terrible.”
K. Anders Ericsson made famous the “10,000 hour rule” popularized later by Malcom Gladwell.
The rule is: if you practice WITH INTENT for 10,000 hours then you will be world-class.
He then wondered why typists would often reach a certain speed level and then never improve no matter how many hours.
After doing research, its because they forgot the “With intent” part. They were satisfied with “good enough”.
You have to constantly come up with new metrics to measure yourself, to compete against yourself, to better the last plateau you reached.
Google is great. But it can be better. Having this mindset always forces you to push beyond the comfort zone.
Once they changed the way typists viewed their skills (by recreating the feeling of “beginner’s mind”) the typists continued to get faster.
“We have a mantra: don’t be evil, which is to do the best things we know how for our users, for our customers, for everyone. So I think if we were known for that, it would be a wonderful thing.”
Many people argue whether or not Google has succeeded at this. That’s not the point.
The point is: Values before Money.
A business is a group of people with a goal to solve a problem. Values might be: we want to solve a problem, we want the customer to be happy, we want employees to feel like they have upward mobility, etc.
Once you lose your values, you’ll lost the money as well. This why family-run businesses often die by the third generation (“Shirt sleeves to shirt sleeves in three generations).
The values of the founder got diluted through his descendants until the company failed.
I spoke to Dick Yuengling about this (CEO of the largest independent beer maker and a fifth generation business).
His family found an interesting way to solve the problem. The business is not inherited. Each generation has to BUY the business from the generation before it.
To do that, each generation needs its own values, its new way of doing things that keeps the brand fresh and ongoing.
“I think it is often easier to make progress on mega-ambitious dreams. Since no one else is crazy enough to do it, you have little competition. In fact, there are so few people this crazy that I feel like I know them all by first name.”
Our parents have our best interests at heart and tell us how to be good adults.
Our schools have our best interests.
Our friends, colleagues, sometimes our bosses, sometimes government, think they have our best interests.
But it’s only when everyone thinks you are crazy that you know you are going to create something that surprises everyone and really makes your own unique handprint on the world.
And because you went out of the comfort zone, you’re only competing against the few other people as crazy as you are.
“You know what it’s like to wake up in the middle of the night with a vivid dream? And you know that if you don’t have a pencil and pad by the bed, it will be completely gone by the next morning. Sometimes it’s important to wake up and stop dreaming. When a really great dream shows up, grab it.”
For every article I’ve ever written, there’s at least ten more I left behind in the middle of the night thinking I would remember in the morning.
I have to beat myself in the head. I . Will. Not. Remember….Must. Write. Down.
It’s hard to wake up. And that’s the only thing worth remembering. It’s hard to wake up.
“I have always believed that technology should do the hard work — discovery, organization, communication — so users can do what makes them happiest: living and loving, not messing with annoying computers! That means making our products work together seamlessly.”
This is a deep question — who are you? If you have a mechanical hand, is that “you”?
Conversely, if you lose a hand, did you lose a part of you. Are you no longer a complete person? The complete you?
If an implant is put into your brain to access Google, does that effect who you view your self to be?
When books were invented, memory suffered. We no longer had to remember as much, because we can look things up.
Does that make our brains less human?
I bet memory has suffered with the rise of Google. Does this mean our consciousness has suffered?
When we created fire, we outsourced part of our digestion to this new invention. Did this make our stomachs less human?
With technology taking care of the basic tasks of our brain and body, it allows us to achieve things we couldn’t previously dream possible.
It allows us to learn and explore and to create past the current comfort zone. It allows us to find the happiness, freedom, and well-being we deserve.
“Over time, our emerging high-usage products will likely generate significant new revenue streams for Google as well as for our partners, just as search does today.“
This is it. This is why Larry Page has re-oriented Google into Alphabet.
Don’t waste your most productive energies solving a problem that now only has incremental improvements.
Re-focus the best energies on solving harder and harder problems.
Always keeping the value of “how can I help a billion people” will keep Google from becoming a Borders bookstore (which went out of business after outsourcing all of their sales to Amazon).
How does this apply to the personal?
Instead of being a cog in the machine for some corporation, come up with ways to automate greater abundance.
Always understand that coming up with multiple ways to help people is ultimately the way to create the biggest impact.
Impact then creates health, friendship, competence, abundance, and freedom.
Oh my god, this answer is too long. And believe it or not, I cut it in half.
If I can just wake up every day and remind myself of these quotes by Larry Page I know I will have a better life.
But this is also why he created Alphabet and put Google underneath it.
To save the world. To save me.
More From James
Latest Podcast: Ep 125: Rich Roll & Julie Piatt — Quit The NonsenseIs it possible to transform your life on the eve of your 40th birthday, and experience meaning, vitality, and purpose like you’ve never before imagined?
Latest Ask Altucher: Ep 332: Ask MollieJames delves into the mind of his 13-year-old daughter Mollie today.
Recommended Article: I Want To Be Like Google When I Grow UpDear Google, I sort of want to have sex with you. Or I want you to be my father. Or my best friend. I don’t know, I feel so nervous writing this letter.
For some reason, I've turned myself inside out and all my guts have spilled onto my blog. One day I'll run out of stuff but not yet.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Last week I was on my way to visit Medium’s headquarters in San Francisco to discuss a project that I’m working on, mainly focused around police brutality. Funnily enough (or not so), I ended up being over an hour late, because this happened.
I recorded the incident August 4th 2015 during the lunch hour. It involves a Black man who was taken down by police in the mid-Market area of San Francisco, between 7th and 8th streets. Though the takedown didn’t occur directly outside of the Twitter building on 9th street, I began to see outlines of the incident unfold from there; a limping Black figure, wearing black, increasingly cornered by a wall of blue. By the time I had crossed 8th street, I was pulling out my phone as fast as I could.
Witnesses said there had been a call about somebody waving sticks around. No one, at least no one that I stayed long enough after the filming, could say for sure where the call came from. One woman said that she heard someone say that one of the deli managers called. By the time I arrived where Joe Bland was (as we’ll call him), several officers had arrived on the scene, and forced this man to the ground, which is where this footage begins. And they held him down, much of the time half-naked, for at least half an hour on one of San Francisco’s busiest streets.
The sticks? They were his crutches. You can hear people in the background around say so much. From my vantage point on the shore of 8th street, I could see the man reluctantly hand over his crutches. The man, it turned out, only had one leg; the other was a prosthetic. It is often twisted and backwards in the video. And this was the crux of the heightened tension between the police and Joe Bland; they wanted his crutches and he did not want to give them away. “What are you doing this for?” he asked so many times. “These are my crutches. I use these to walk.” He repeats this throughout the footage. An officer can be seen at the 5 second time-mark stomping on the man’s prosthetic leg. In further efforts to subdue a man already on the ground with four people on top of him, they stood on his leg, held it, and twisted it around even after they had cuffed him and pinned him to the piss-stained concrete.
Even when restrained and clearly unable to walk, several officers continued to hold him down to the ground.
This version of the video is 11 minutes long (the incident actually went on way longer and I have roughly 30 minutes of footage) but here’s a brief summary of what you can see.
5 seconds in, you can see a cop literally stomp this man’s real leg and prosthetic leg.
At 10 seconds, the man-handling of his head begins.
At 22 seconds the man says, “What the fuck is you doing this to me?”
Around 1:35, the “Blue Wall” begins to form to block my filming.
Around 3:11, you can see that the man is partially nude, his ass is exposed. You can also hear me responding to the things that officers are saying to me, even if you can’t really hear them. Among the things they said: “You don’t live here,” “What do you do?” and “Oh, you’re a journalist, right, for who?”
Around 3:55, you can’t hear him, but the man on the ground says, “they’re going to shoot me” and then you can clearly hear someone behind me say, “They ain’t gonna shoot you man, that’s why we have these cameras out here.”
4:00 the wall begins to deepen and you can also see his nude backside completely exposed.
Around 6:00 he begins saying how much it hurts — “this shit hurts” and at 6:44, he says, “ That shit hurts…I have a fucking sore, an infection, on my leg.”
Around 7:00 the man begins asking, “What the fuck is wrong with you, is this what you do? [inaudible? something “treat me”?] Is this respectable? When I say ‘no’, is this what you do to me?”
At 7:25 he’s explaining to them, as he has before — and other people in the background have also corroborated — that he was walking with the sticks that were confiscated from him.
It goes on.
This isn’t a video of a man getting killed. Some might watch this and think in that general, indemnifying way, that this video is an exceptional case of an isolated case of poor policing. I’d have to disagree — and not respectfully — with you.
These incidents are so quotidian, so mundane, that they do not merit a mention in even passing on the local news. Which is to say, this is everyday harassment. Which is to say, that we’ve normalized and habitualized the kind of policing in San Francisco and the rest of America that brutalizes the most vulnerable people, which strips them of their human dignity, the agency to their bodies — to walk with crutches when physically disabled, to have this body unviolated — when in actuality, they are whom the police are especially supposed to be protecting.
In the book Between The World and Me, Ta-Nehisi Coates writes, “In America, it is traditional to destroy the Black body — it is heritage.” This is a literal and physical example of what he means by this. To say that this footage is exceptional or special is to be blind to Eric Garner’s death tape, to Walter Scott’s murder on video, it is to agree that John Crawford did not have the right to walk around Walmart with a toy gun in an open carry state. Yes, it’s racial profiling. Yes, it’s racism. Yes, it’s inequality. This is an American heritage.
But before you think that this is not San Francisco’s heritage, it would be better to first ask the Joe Blands, those that you may step over on any given day because you are busy, the BART is packed and they smell violently, what they think San Francisco’s heritage is, as it pertains to the police. Before you think that this is not San Francisco’s heritage, it is better to wonder why Black people, 7% of San Francisco’s population, are 7 times more likely to be arrested than White people. If you must believe that this video and the flood of others like it are exceptional instances of isolated brutality, then let us too believe that the stomping of vulnerable Black bodies and Black (prosthetic) limbs with pulverizing intent are what one means when they say, American exceptionalism.
I don’t know who Joe Bland is. I and others tried to get his name, but we could not make it out very well. Long after my meeting at Medium, watching the video by frames and discussing this with Bobbie Johnson about what to do next (who did a tremendous job in helping this come together and edit this), I was still at a loss for exactly what he’d done. But I do know that the police didn’t even put him under arrest: SFFD medics strapped him, against his will, to a stretcher and took him to hospital, for no apparent reason. I do know that he was humiliated, crying and deeply upset, but that and being physically handicapped are not enough reasons to be sent to the hospital. I do know that 14 officers to take down a presumably homeless man with one leg seems like a waste of resources and unreasonable.
The San Francisco Police Department is not new to controversy or to this American heritage. This year it’s been embroiled in a racist texting scandal, with officers caught sending messages calling African-Americans “monkeys” and encouraging the killing of “half breeds.” Earlier this year several officers and former officers were sentenced to jail for drug dealing, and pocketing money found during drug raids — some of which were unconstitutional. Just last week it came to light that the department has requested a mine-resistant armored vehicle, and recently the department was also subject to an investigation into faulty crime lab evidence —with as many as 1,400 criminal cases in the spotlight. A 2014 KQED review of police-involved shootings between 2005 and 2013 found that 58% of the people killed by the San Francisco Police Department were mentally ill. In an interview with the City Democratic Club in 2014, San Francisco’s chief of police, Greg Suhr, reported that his men are becoming “more and more charming.”
Speaking of which, Greg Suhr earns $320,000 per year — more than any other police chief in America. He also makes more than the mayor of San Francisco and the governor of California — $285,000 and $174,000 respectively.
This happened in the heart of one of America’s most affluent cities, literally outside the headquarters of Twitter. One block away are the headquarters of Uber, which is on pace to be the fastest-growing company in history. There are dozens of technology companies and buzzy internet media businesses along this stretch of Market Street, worth many, many billions of dollars. And not to my knowledge, did any of their employees or representatives come out to look at what the police were doing. And if they did, none of them have since publicly wondered what and how to use the powers of innovation, access and capital to change the narrative of police brutality in San Francisco and America. Perhaps they did not know that Joe Bland had been brutalized. Perhaps they were looking from their lofts and skyscrapers, on their way to the coffee machines or the in-house catered lunch and did see, but they too have normalized this mundane, quotidian and brutal American heritage. Whatever the internal struggles were, no one came.
And what could they do? If you’re sitting in your office in the Tenderloin, or mid-Market, or downtown San Francisco, what can you really do?
You are not powerless. You are rich and empowered, despite how you feel after paying rent and the IRS. You have a voice, a vote, a say in how San Francisco polices itself, in how it treats people. Greg Suhr and his officers work for you, not the other way around. As such, the police act on the democratic will of the people and if the current policing does not fit your will, you can change that.
So here are three things you can do.
So. The Haiti-ians need to come to America.
The story you’ve been missing.
By JON WESTENBERG
You could make something right now. If you wanted to stop reading, grab a sheet of butcher’s paper and brainstorm ideas, you could probably come up with half a dozen ideas for apps, books or products. Ideas aren’t the hard part, after all — just ask Tom Haverford.
You could build a Wordpress site and start harassing your friends to test the concept. You could start writing op-ed pieces on Medium and put “Founder” or “Author” in your Twitter bio within 48 hours. You could throw up a landing page, post the first chapter of a book and start pushing it on Product Hunt.
Where things get tough is when you’re trying to make something that people genuinely give a shit about. You don’t want your dream to die in the chamber, because nobody read it, watched it, used it or listened to it. The deafening silence surrounding your work can crush your soul.

If you want to make something that people really care about, that they actually give a hot shit about, you have to care about it yourself. Because if you don’t, then try as you might, it’ll come out in the final product.
The reason for this?
The only way you’ll be able to consistently work, when you don’t want to work, consistently try when you don’t want to try, is by deeply and honestly caring about your work.

The best writing advice I have ever heard was to write specifically for someone I know. It’s a genius idea. Every time I go to create something, or build something I think about who I know that would benefit from what I’m doing.
If you have something that you care enough about to make, you have to ask the next question — who are you making it for? What information do they need? What turn of phrase would stop them in their tracks? What is their single pain point that the product could solve, or their secret story that your novel would be able to touch and cultivate into a real emotional response?


You need to ask yourself whether you have the courage, the strength, the motivation and the passion to make what you want to make. And I mean really ask yourself, because when you first come up with an idea you can get so caught up in it that you can’t see anything else.
When that feeling starts to die down, or you get used to it, you can realise that you don’t have the real raw power to be able to finish and follow through. That’s not a bad thing; there is nothing wrong with recognising that a project isn’t right for you. Maybe there’s another project that is.
It’s not enough just to care about what you’re making — it has to feel right.

Have you ever watched one of those reality TV singing competitions? You’ve probably seen a hundred young people, eyes shining, clutching microphones and talking about their dreams. They’ll explain that ever since they were kids, they wanted to be singers.
They hardly ever say they wanted to sing. When it comes down to it, half the time it’s because actually singing isn’t the end goal. They want the trappings and lifestyle and the breaks of being a singer.
The same is true for anything you could make. Do you want to make X, or do you want to be the person who made X? Because if you don’t care about the act of making something, and if you don’t want to get out there every day and try to make something, you might as well quit.

If you want to write a book that can break someone’s heart — work hard.
If you want to start a business that changes the world — work hard.
If you want to draw a comic book that expresses everything you are, and dream about — work hard.


Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

Last Saturday, I read the 6,000-word New York Times piece, “Inside Amazon,” in the car on my way to the beach. I sat quietly in the front seat, glued to my phone while my husband flapped his hand gesturing for help with Google maps. My two-year-old danced to the sounds of Raffi in the back. When we got to the beach, we set up our spot, complete with dinosaur sand toys. My husband and daughter made a beeline for the water. I put on my Coolibar SPF 50 jacket to cover my skin from the sun. Then I sat down in my chair and wept.
Until July of 2014, I worked for Amazon. As a relatively successful young book editor, I’d been hired by the company in 2011 to help launch its New York City-based book publishing outpost created to commission original content by name writers. The media landscape was continuing to evolve; everyone was in everyone else’s lane. It was a big opportunity, one many people inside the publishing industry told me privately I would be crazy not to take. I was drawn to Amazon’s spirit of innovation, its agility, and its culture of excellence. I was about to start Columbia’s Executive MBA program when the offer came in. Why not, as the saying goes, “earn to learn,” I thought. I took the job.
I was dazzled by the people I met in different pockets of the company those first few months. They were all smart. They were all lightning-fast. And, I quickly noted, when it came to leadership positions, they were almost all men. “So, who’s our Sheryl Sandberg?” I asked a VP. He cited General Counsel Michelle Wilson, the sole woman on Jeff Bezos’s executive team. The next year, in 2012, Wilson left the company to take maternity leave. She never returned.
In 2013, during my second year at Amazon, I had a baby of my own. Six weeks after my daughter was born, I was diagnosed with cancer. I was given detailed instructions by my oncologist’s staff on how to “pump and dump” my breast milk for 24 hours to prevent my daughter from ingesting radioactive matter. There I was, soothing my infant, unsure of whether or not I would be around to see her first birthday.
After my surgery, while I was still on maternity leave, I received a form letter saying that the health insurance provided by my employer had been terminated. Dozens of panicked emails and phone calls later, the whole thing was, I was told, a glitch in the system. After a week of back and forth, I was offered COBRA coverage, by which point I had already switched to my husband’s insurance, where I remained for the duration of my care. I chalked it up to a horrendous administrative error but remain disappointed that a company of Amazon’s size didn’t have better mechanisms in place to prevent something like that from happening during an employee’s maternity leave.
After a five-month leave, I was nervous and excited to return to work, and I showed up that first day back with a big smile and a phone full of baby pictures to share. I figured I’d catch up with folks and get a high-level update on how the business was doing, since the strategy had evolved from the time I was hired. Here’s what happened instead: I was taken to lunch by a woman I barely knew. Over Cobb salad she calmly explained that all but one of my direct reports — the people I had hired — were now reporting to her. In the months that followed, I was placed on a dubious performance improvement plan, or PIP, a signal at Amazon that your employment is at risk. Not long after that I resigned.
The truth is, I’ve moved on. I’m healthy. I have a great job doing work I love. There’s no question Amazon is an incredible company. I met some of the strongest, most brilliant women of my career there. Unfortunately, many of those women have left. And the voices commenting on the New York Times piece so far have been predominantly male leaders of male-dominated teams.
Jeff: You asked for direct feedback. Women power your retail engine. They buy diapers. They buy books. They buy socks for their husbands on Prime. On behalf of all the people who want to speak up but can’t: Please, make Amazon a more hospitable place for women and parents. Reevaluate your parental leave policies. You can’t claim to be a data-driven company and not release more specific numbers on how many women and people of color apply, get hired and promoted, and stay on as employees. In the absence of meaningful public data — especially retention data — all we have are stories. This is mine.
Julia Cheiffetz is an Executive Editor at HarperCollins Publishers. She is on the Board of the Lower Eastside Girls Club.
The Fuckboy, in his current form, aims for the night, aims for the break, goals to ghost. The Softboy strings you along under loftier auspices. He is Nice yet Complicated; this isn’t just a hookup. It’s a series of such.
The Softboy did not talk to you at the party, but he’s adding you on Facebook while you’re on the train home. Soon, he wants to know if you’d “like to get drinks.”
“Or something.”
He discusses his ex-girlfriend within the first thirty minutes of the date. He talks about her in a sad, wistful way rather than a snarky, resentful way. The older Softboy will say, “Oh well, it’s in the past.” The younger Softboy will say, “So it goes.”
The Softboy may be named Tom. Or Phillip.
The Softboy wears a plain t-shirt or sweater and orders cheap beer backed with bottom-shelf whiskey. He is neither Bro nor Nerd. He is sensitive yet amusingly crass. He doesn’t want you to know he has feelings. He wants you to know that he has feelings and he is completely okay with that.
The Fuckboy is perplexed that you were upset when he forgot to text you for three days then sent “what are you up to” at last call. The Softboy knows this behavior is selfish and cruel, though his desire to get laid can trump this. He feels shame. He does it again.
He wants to know if you’re mad at him. He already knows.
The Softboy doesn’t want to talk to you about The Wire. He concedes that it is “objectively good television” yet “ultimately problematic” and “undeserving of its lionization.” Obviously, he is an Ally.
He has some art to show you.
The Softboy does not necessarily have a soft body. In fact he is often wiry and angular.
However: the heavier the Softboy, the thicker the beard.
He is emotionally intelligent but does nothing with this knowledge. He is artistic. He is aware. He is still a dick.
The Softboy sends you songs via Gchat while you’re at work.
He hasn’t texted you back for a reason; he was not blowing you off. He’s had a Weird Day. Or maybe he’s Trying To Figure Some Shit Out. Sometimes, he finds pride in declaring that he Just Needs A Night To Himself.
The Softboy is an Underdog. He has a hurricane sulk.
He resurfaces seconds before the final ember extinguishes.
The Softboy wields guilt like a floral knife.
Writer | California Son | alan-hanson.com

I’m a professional YouTube creator. Some people think that this is some kind of joke but I have 30 employees. All of them work in the online video industry, about half of them work directly on producing videos for our educational YouTube channels. We’re a small, profitable business.
Facebook is an interesting, emerging platform for us. Reaching an audience is valuable, even if there’s no way to turn that value into money. So I’m excited about the potential future of Facebook as a video platform.
But there are a few things that make me wary, not of their ability to grow my business, but of whether they give a shit about creators, which is actually pretty important to me. Let’s go through them one by one.
If I embed a YouTube video or Vine on Facebook, only a tiny fraction of my audience will actually see it. But if I post the same video natively on Facebook, suddenly it’s in everyone’s feed everywhere! This data is pretty easy to come by for us, and Facebook is happy to admit the strategy. A SciShow YouTube video embedded on Facebook will reach between 20,000 and 50,000 people and be viewed by hundreds of people. The same video uploaded natively will get a reach of between 60,000 and 150,000 and be “viewed” by tens of thousands (more on what those “views” actually mean later).
Sonja Foust of Duke University actually took the time to crunch some real numbers on this, and she was kind enough to allow me to share them with you:
So Facebook is pushing Facebook video. I guess that’s their prerogative (unless someone decides there’s an anti-trust argument to be made.) But as a creator, it seems like an abuse of their power.

In our analytics-obsessed world, it’s tempting to first ask how to measure whether something is a view, but if we take a step back and just ask what a “view” is, the answer becomes clearer. What is a view? It’s when someone watches the video. And Facebook counts views significantly before people could be said to be watching the video.
Facebook counts the “view” at the three second mark (whether or not the viewer has even turned on the sound) in the midst of a precipitous decline in retention. At that moment, 90% of people scrolling the page are still ‘watching’ this silent animated GIF. But by 30 seconds, when viewership actually could be claimed, only 20% are watching. 90% of people are being counted, but only 20% of people are actually “viewing” the video.
YouTube, on the other hand, counts views in a logical way…the view is counted at the point at which people seem to actually be engaging with the video and not just immediately clicking away. This is usually around 30 seconds, but of course is different for videos of different lengths.
This might seem a little like this is a victimless crime, but it fundamentally devalues the #1 metric of online video. The view is the thing that everyone talks about and it’s the thing creators sell to advertisers in order to make a living. Applying that word to something far less valuable is going to be extremely disruptive to creators. Ad agencies and brands are confused enough without Facebook muddying the waters by calling something a view when it is in no way a measure of viewership.
When Facebook says it has roughly the same number of views as YouTube, what they really mean is that they have roughly 1/5th of YouTube’s views, since they’re intentionally and blatantly over-counting to the detriment of everyone except them.

According to a recent report from Ogilvy and Tubular Labs, of the 1000 most popular Facebook videos of Q1 2015, 725 were stolen re-uploads. Just these 725 “freebooted” videos were responsible for around 17 BILLION views last quarter. This is not insignificant, it’s the vast majority of Facebook’s high volume traffic. And no wonder, when embedding a YouTube video on your company’s Facebook page is a sure way to see it die a sudden death, we shouldn’t be surprised when they rip it off YouTube and upload it natively. Facebook’s algorithms encourage this theft.
What is Facebook doing about it?
They’ll take the video down a couple days after you let them know. Y’know, once it’s received 99.9% of the views it will ever receive.
Creators have been yelling (apparently into a void) about this for over a year now. Fullscreen CEO George Strompolos shared his thoughts on Twitter last month:
And then he was joined by the Fine Brothers, who run one of the largest channels on YouTube
Destin Sandlin, who runs the “Smarter Every Day” channel released a video on the topic after a video of his was ripped and re-uploaded by a subsidiary of Bauer Media Group and received 17 million views on their Facebook page.
But most creators have responded, thus far, the same way as me. By shrugging our shoulders and saying “What am I gonna do about it…it’s Facebook, they’re massive.”
But that’s exactly what makes it so awful.
It’s no secret that YouTube was built, in part, on copyright infringement. Among the user generated content that drove traffic to YouTube in 2006 and 2007, there were plenty of Family Guy and Daily Show clips. But YouTube was a tiny start-up flying under the radar. As soon as it got big (and got bought) Google fixed this problem with “Content ID,” a system that analyzes every single video uploaded to YouTube and checks it against a massive database of known owned content.
It’s a little inexcusable that Facebook, a company with a market cap of $260 BILLION, launched their video platform with no system to protect independent rights holders. It wouldn’t be surprising if Facebook was working on a solution now which they can roll out conveniently after having made their initial claims at being the biggest, most important thing in video.
But even if they do have a system, it won’t function as well as Content ID. Content ID works so well largely because YouTube is good at monetizing content. So, instead of taking a video down, a copyright holder can claim the video and receive revenue from it. Content ID has claimed millions of videos and is responsible for over a billion dollars in revenue so copyright holders love it. But without a good system of monetization, Facebook can only remove videos, not send big checks to the owners of stolen content. For the copyright holder, interfacing with a profitless system is just a pain in the ass with no upside.
What to do? Well, the lack of searchability on Facebook makes it impossible for creators to discover when their content is being freebooted, so if you see suspect content, please reach out to the creator so they can take action. If you have any legal or technical solutions you think might work, please post those as responses to this. And above all, just know that this is an issue and share what you can with who you can. Facebook won’t hold itself accountable, but maybe they will if we make them.
Facebook is big enough that it shouldn’t need to resort to these tactics to build its video presence. It makes them look weak to be so excited about skyrocketing numbers if those numbers are based on cheating, lies, and theft.
Hank Green makes YouTube videos for a living on channels like SciShow, Crash Course, and Vlogbrothers. He also runs a merchandise company for internet creators (DFTBA Records), a conference for internet creators (VidCon), and his crowd-funding platform for internet creators (Subbable) was recently acquired by Patreon.
Internetainerpreneur
I think spatially, and so do you. Can you scratch your left ear without looking? Pick a booger out of your nose, without poking your brain? Remember where you left your keys? Can you type, without looking at your keyboard? Know which pocket your phone is in? Which way is up? Do you know where the bathroom is? Of course you do! We imagine multi-dimensional models in our minds, to help understand the complex world around us. We can also leverage this powerful way of thinking, to process more abstract information.
I believe the best software is an extension of the human brain. It lets us think naturally, and conforms to us, not the other way around. Translation of information should be the computer’s job, not ours. It’s what we built these digital slaves for. A great Spatial Interface meets our expectations of a physical model. Designed for human beings, it supports a mind, living in the dimensions of space and time. They are Interfaces that are sensible about where things lay. Like a well designed building, they’re easy to traverse through. One space flows into the other, without surprise.
To design a Spatial Interface, you need to think inside and outside the bounds of the screen. Think about the physicality of the objects in your interface. Where did they come from? Where will they go? How do they behave in respect to Kinetic influence? Do certain objects inherit physical properties of others? Where are you, relative to everything else?
These are hard questions to answer with words. Seems like a no-brainer, but I find it most effective to solve visual problems with pictures.
Diagrammatic Reasoning
When designing spatially, it helps to imagine an interface as a physical model, which can be manipulated, and travelled through. Rather than placing detached comps next to each other one-dimensionally, try thinking upper-dimensionally.
Here’s a breakdown of the Contextual Zooming paradigm that was key to creating Keezy Drummer.
You can visualize the relationships between dimensions as extrusions of lower dimensions. Each dimension creates a significantly more complex model to visualize.



We can design with time, by thinking about kinetic, Transitional Interfaces. Both Spatial & Temporal clues lead the eye around physical models.






Motion implies space. Movement re-enforces the physical characteristics of the spaces on and off the screen. Objects constrained using sensible, physical rules, help establish a clear model.


We’ve all seen this classic, list item deletion pattern. Swipe the cell, and it reveals a button behind it. Tap the icon, and the entire cell collapses.

What happens if we change the way the list item departs the screen?

If we cushion / ease the item exiting the screen, we suggest where it might stop. In this case, it stops a little short off screen. We might want to do this to imply a holding area, which could feed items back into the list. Maybe we could allow the user to swipe the viewport to the right hand side of the screen, revealing displaced list items.

If the item keeps accelerating, where does it end up? Out of reach? Are we banishing it into the void of outer space?

If the list item rotates and displaces along the x & y axis freely, does it come to rest off the grid? Is there gravity? Maybe it lands in a pile.



Z-translation implies depth.
The list item could flip over. It might fold in on itself like an accordion. Maybe it scrunches. The fill color could drain out of the cell like a liquid. I could go on with visual examples forever, but by now, I think you get the picture; one can encode quite a lot of meaning using motion and space.



Pretty conceptual, but Scorekeeper does a great job of creating focus. It isolates modes, rather than presenting the user with a bloated buffet of options to dig through. Complexity is hidden in secondary, and tertiary sub-interfaces. Each sub-interface is as simple as its parent.


Tinder famously employs a card paradigm. There’s an endless stack of cards which make use of z-depth. Toss a card from the stack to the right, for a babe you’re into, or throw them to the left to pass. Similarly, if you tap the heart or ‘x’ button, it automatically tosses the card to the respective side of screen, re-enforcing the function of space.
It’s a physical, kinetic model that’s familiar.


Secondary screens are placed along a horizontal continuum, which is reflected in the motion of the navigation, cascading to the content below. A great example of motion being leveraged to imply space.
I’m unsure if it’s intentional, but the interface for messaging your ‘matches’ happens to exist on the right hand side, within the same area you toss your Tinder crush card.



Tumblr’s model is simple. There’s a few contexts, connected with a tab bar. It’s easy to visualize if you imagine the interface from the perspective of a camera. A persistent toolbar follows us, as if attached to the camera we’re looking through. Though you don’t see explicit motion along the x-axis as we change contexts (as Tinder employs), there’s still a implicit feeling of space on either side of the columns.
None of this is groundbreaking.
What’s interesting is the use of the compose modal, triggered by touching the blue pencil icon. No matter where it’s touched, you are not transported to a new part of the interface, rather — you’re presented with a temporary offering, in a focused view. You have incredibly simple options: Either select a post type, or dismiss the menu. The view presents itself over the top of the content, as if it were a layer existing on a z-plane. Dismiss the view, and it returns to where it was summoned. Choose to make an action on it, you continue to move along the y-axis with the icons, implying a continuum. It’s like a conveyor belt on a production line.
My one gripe in Tumblr’s process, is that the metadata composer is presented with the insertion of a classic, master-detail view. If I were to push the interface further, I’d continue to present the next screen with y-axis motion, rather than introducing the extra x-dimension. This reduces the cognitive load required to imagine the spatial model.


A classic lightbox effect, but with a little more. Tap the photo, and it moves into the ‘foreground’. The background feed dims and recedes. Flick the photo away, and it returns back to its initial position, while the original container view zooms back into focus. It’s solid.



There’s a lot to learn, by deconstructing these expensive Frankensteins.

One of the most spatially confusing, while popular pieces of consumer software. To describe how Spotify’s interface makes use of space, would be to describe a rat’s nest of wires. I challenge you to effectively sketch it on a piece of paper.

A user of Spotify is exposed to obscure carousels, buried inside modals, stuffed inside list views, crammed into drawers, contained by drop-downs, tucked behind gestures. Each list item in the hamburger menu forces the user through a wild goose chase in order to perform a simple action. It’s like you have to play a choose your own adventure story to get anything done.

While it may seem baffling that a team of talented engineers & designers could produce such a monstrosity, it’s unsurprising when you take a look at the software development values of Spotify. A holistic approach to creating software is thrown out the window, in favor of ungrounded company memes.

…but to be fair, the rest of the competition in the music space doesn’t seem to get it either. Apple Music & Rdio’s interfaces are equally insufferable. There’s little, to no thought given to Space.

Praised for its use of spring physics, and wild animations, it seems remarkable on the surface. The Paper team made some cool tech, and even open sourced it. It’s fun to fling around. It ends there. Paper is a children’s interactive playbook for an iPad, rebranded and then crammed into a tiny iPhone. Ok, well it’s Push Pop Press shoehorned into Facebook.

There’s momentum scroll areas for days. Springs on springs on springs on springs. Cards that unfold like a shiny newspaper? You can pinch everything. The loudest hamburger menu in the world. Everything is simulated and moves for the sake of flair. It’s unnecessary kinetic toil. It’s fatiguing to traverse the amount of physical space described in the interface, let alone keep a model in the mind to remember where you are.
It’s a great example of going too far.

This one’s so obvious, I’m presenting it without any further comment.

How do we avoid the Rat’s Nest? We need to zoom out, and quite literally. Like I mentioned earlier, it helps immensely to think in terms of diagrammatic reasoning. Simple directions on the map result in a less chaotic journey through space.
Some tips:




I hope what I’ve penned down has encouraged you to think more Spatially. Go play some video games, and study the interfaces. Go outside. Observe the physicality of reality and your expectations of it. It’s in the DNA of the creations I’m inspired by, and the type of work I strive to produce.
I’ll be talking about this topic at Push Conference in Munich later this year. Feel free to email me: medium@pasquale.cool, or write to me on twitter @pasql
✌🏻

Special thanks:
Jake Lodwick, Eric Skogen, Mark Stultz, & Sebastiaan de With
Creative Director & Co-Founder of Keezy. http://pasquale.cool/
From the boys at Elepath Inc. http://elepath.com

Edit: At Facebook’s request I have again deactivated the *official* version of the extension. Furthermore, Facebook has deactivated location sharing from the desktop webpage so the extension will not work.
When I came to college Facebook Messenger became an integral part of my digital life. I quickly found that it was the easiest way to keep in touch with old high school friends, contact people I had just met, organize impromptu poker games with people I hardly knew, and everything in between. However, I didn't realize how much data about me Messenger was revealing to the people I chatted with until last week when I began tinkering with my message history.
As you may know, when you send a message from the Messenger app there is an option to send your location with it. What I realized was that almost every other message in my chats had a location attached to it, so I decided to have some fun with this data. I wrote a Chrome extension for the Facebook Messenger page (https://www.facebook.com/messages/) that scrapes all this location data and plots it on a map. You can get this extension here and play around with it on your message data.

You may not believe that there are enough of these location tagged messages to provide truly invasive data on any one person, since they must be on mobile, with GPS on, and choose to share their location for it to be sent… right?
What you should keep in mind is that the mobile app for Facebook Messenger defaults to sending a location with all messages.
Go ahead and see how many messages in your chats have locations attached. I’m guessing it’s a lot of them. And if this isn't already starting to get a bit weird, the first thing I noticed when I started to write my code was that the latitude and longitude coordinates of the message locations have more than 5 decimal places of precision, making it possible to pinpoint the sender’s location to less than a meter.
Once the extension was written I naturally started seeing what kind of things I could discover about my Facebook friends.
I am in a pretty active group chat with some of my brother’s friends (who I am friends with on Facebook but don’t know too well). They are all fairly active on the chat, posting once a day or more.
Let’s pick on the one who goes to Stanford. By simply looking at the cluster of messages sent late at night you can tell exactly where his dorm is, and in fact approximately where his room is located in that dorm.
Furthermore, by gathering a couple weeks’ worth of chat data on the map and looking at the location clusters you can even figure out his weekly schedule. With this you can predict exactly which building he would be in at a given time.
In fact I found that I could infer a schedule for almost everyone in this chat as well as the other active chats I am in.
I found that I could even do this for people who I am not Facebook friends with. I am currently in a large active chat to organize poker games with some fellow students, many of whom I am not Facebook friends with. However, I can still track their locations extremely accurately from the messages they send the group.
You can now see the fun (and slightly creepy) things this data allows you to do. But wait there's more! One day when I was chatting frequently with a friend of mine (@tomasreimers) the map allowed me to track his hour by hour locations. At the end of that day the location history on the map closely matched the location history collected by his phone.
Additionally, this map aggregates the location data from all the messages that I send. For the days I was frequently on messenger (posting to different conversations every hour or so), my location history on this map lined up very closely with my phone’s location history.
This means that if a few people who I am chatting with separately collude and send each other the locations I share with them, they would be able to track me very accurately without me ever knowing.
If you want to map your friends’ locations to see for yourself how fun (and creepy) this data is you can download the extension for Chrome here. The code is also available and open source on Github.
For those of you already wanting out here is a great guide on how to ensure you don’t send your locations from the Messenger app.

Let me reiterate that I still find Facebook Messenger extremely useful and use it religiously, albeit with location sharing now turned off. This may lead you to wonder if there really is a problem here, since there is always option to not share your exact coordinates with messages. However, everyone I have shown this extension to has been anywhere from surprised to appalled that this much of their very personal data is online for their friends (and even complete strangers) to access. So it is seems that there is an issue.
Let’s start at the root of the problem: why do so many people give up their location data so readily on Messenger?
The main problem is that every time you open your phone and send a single message it’s so easy to forget about your location data being attached to it. Furthermore, it seems so harmless to attach a location with a single message, but the problem is over time the information from these messages adds up.
Both of these issues in some way stem from the fact that locations are not only included by default, but also are rather subtly placed in the UI. The power of defaults on human behavior is well documented in psychology and suggests that few people will put in the effort to deviate from the default action of sharing. Furthermore, because there are no readily visible consequences to sharing your location, users are never incentivized to devote attention to what this default of sharing is actually revealing about them.
I decided to write this extension, because we are constantly being told how we are losing privacy with the increasing digitization of our lives, however the consequences never seem tangible. With this code you can see for yourself the potentially invasive usage of the information you share, and decide for yourself if this is something you should worry about.
Student at Harvard College in Computer Science and Mathematics. Find me at arankhanna.com
Open minded reading
The web is increasingly becoming a powerful resource that can easily help you learn something new everyday. These awesome sites are just what you need.

There is a good chance you’ll be able to put at least one of these learning tools to good use and come out as a better person than you were last year. These are some of the best websites that will make you smarter every day.
2. 99U (YouTube) — Actionable insights on productivity, organization, and leadership to help creative people push ideas forward.
3. Youtube EDU — The education videos that don’t have cute cats in boxes — but they do unlock knowledge.
4. WikiWand — A slick new interface for Wikipedia.
5. The long read (The Guardian) — In-depth reporting, essays and profiles.
6. TED — Great videos to open your mind on almost every topic.
7. iTunes U — Learning on the go, from some of the world’s top universities.
8. InsightfulQuestions (subreddit) — Intellectual discussions that are not necessarily genre-specific.
9. Cerego — Cerego helps you build personalized study plans based on your strengths and weaknesses to retain knowledge.
10. University of the People — Tuition-free online university that offers higher education in multiple course streams.
11. OpenSesame — Marketplace for online training, now with 22,000+ courses.
12. CreativeLive — Take free creative classes from the world’s top experts.
13. Coursera — Partnering with some of the top U.S. universities, Coursera offers massive open online courses for free.
14. University of reddit — the product of free intellectualism and is a haven for the sharing of knowledge.
15. Quora — You ask, the net discusses — with top experts and fascinating back and forth on everything.
16. Digital Photography School — Read through this goldmine of articles to improve your photography skills.
17. Umano -Explore the largest collection of audio articles powered by real people. Dropbox has acquired Umano. Brain Pickings is a great replacement for 17.
Brain Pickings — Insightful long form posts on life, art, science, design, history, philosophy, and more.
18. Peer 2 Peer University or P2PU, is an open educational project that helps you learn at your own pace.
19. MIT Open CourseWare is a catalog of free online courses and learning resources offered by MIT.
20. Gibbon — This is the ultimate playlist for learning.
21. Investopedia — Learn everything you need to know about the world of investing, markets, and personal finance.
22. Udacity offers interactive online classes and courses in higher education.
23. Mozilla Developer Network offers detailed documentation and learning resources for web developers.
24. Future learn — enjoy free online courses from top universities and specialist organisations.
25. Google Scholar — provides a search of scholarly literature across many disciplines and sources, including theses, books, abstracts and articles.
26. Brain Pump — A place to learn something new everyday.
27. Mental Floss — Test your knowledge with amazing and interesting facts, trivia, quizzes, and brain teaser games.
28. Learnist — Learn from expertly curated web, print and video content.
29. DataCamp — Online R tutorials and data science courses.
30. edX — Take online courses from the world’s best universities.
31. Highbrow — Get bite-sized daily courses to your inbox.
32. Coursmos — Take a micro-course anytime you want, on any device.
33. Platzi — Live streaming classes on design, marketing and code.

“What could be more important to a learner than proficiency in good thinking?” Peter Worley
The author is the founder at Alltopstartups (where he shares startup resources) and Postanly (a free weekly newsletter that delivers the best, most popular and long form posts from top publishers around the web). Follow him on Twitter @Alltopstartups.
Entrepreneur. Blogger. Author. Founder at Alltopstartups.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

Life is exhausting. No joke.
All we do is work. Or think of work. Or talk about work.
Work, work, work.
It wears on us after awhile. We get burned out. Some of us develop unhealthy addictions (like watching endless reruns of Friends). We even get sick.
Want to know what the best remedy I’ve found to battle burnout?
(One of my favorite artists has this tattooed on his arm.)
The reason we burn out isn’t because of this thing called ‘activity’.
Life is action. Movement.
Stillness is an illusion.
We see the proof in nature itself…
The glassy pond, under a microscope, is anything but still.
Even as we sleep, our hearts beat, our hair grows, and our brain zooms full-speed ahead.
Life never complains. It just goes and goes because that’s its nature.
The problem we have is alignment. Things go awry when we get out of alignment with what we’re doing. This is how things die.
Whether we’re just-not-that-into-it or we outright hate it, our intentions are somewhere else while our bodies, brains, and egos are trudging along with a slowly dying battery.
So we do things out of obligation. We feel coerced. Like we have no say in the matter.
We just go through the motions. There’s no soul behind it. No presence.
No wonder we’re burned out.
Want to turn the ship around?
Get into it.
Start doing as much as you can — even the smallest things like washing dishes, mowing the lawn, or doodling — with your full intent behind it. Like it’s the most mindful, enjoyable thing you’ve ever done.
Move through your day with purpose. With direction.
Soon, things will shift. You’ll start happening onto life so it can happen back. You’ll feel alive again (and will probably sleep better too).

Life is a ping-pong game. You’re serving. Until you move, it’s just gonna stand there and look at you.
You gonna bring the heat or not?
Heretic. Spiritual consigliere. Consciousness alignment specialist and sherpa. | About: http://bit.ly/1zgSK21 | Subscribe: http://bit.ly/1ULQlbK.
Short daily essays by Jonas Ellison about good, clean creative living and thoughts of a higher nature. | Subscribe via email: http://bit.ly/1ULQlbK.



Woah.
Cosmopolitan covers started out with women dressed conservatively. Then they started showing some skin. Then more skin. Finally, they started posing in sexy positions.
As women have earned more rights throughout the years, they’ve also earned the right to wear whatever they damn well please. Or maybe that just sells more magazines?


No bikini-clad teens here. It’s still pretty wholesome.
The Seventeen logo has stayed the same, but almost everything else about the design has changed. There was a time when the cover was delightfully simple. Then things just got more and more cluttered.
The magazine cover’s job is to sell the magazine — it has to stand out in a rack full of other magazines. So the design starts to get louder and louder.
When doing research for this article, I kept getting headaches whenever I looked at Seventeen covers for too long. Google image search “Seventeen Magazine” and you’ll see what I mean:
Ow. My eyes.


These are our new role models.
Ah, the Kardashians. Whether you love them, or love to hate them — there’s no disputing they’re wicked talented at monetizing their fame.
Vogue has had some gorgeous covers throughout the years. Like every other magazine, they’ve added more text on their covers to lure the readers in. But unlike Seventeen, they’ve done a good job of keeping the design classy and uncluttered.
For a more scientific look, check out Robots Reading Vogue, which compiled visual averages for all of the past covers of Vogue. (Thanks to Redditor othfilms for the find).


A walk down history, as seen through Time covers:
Time has done a great job branding its recognizable red border. The design has remained mostly consistent — except for a brief logo change in the 70's and 80's, which they quickly realized was a bad idea.
Time continues to feature America’s icons year after year — from presidents to pop stars. Who will be our icons in the next 100 years?

It surprised me that National Geographic’s covers were so text-heavy for most of its existence. This is a magazine that is perhaps best known for its beautiful full-bleed photography — yet they didn’t adopt this style until the 1960's. In contrast, magazines like Vogue and Cosmopolitan were were way ahead of the curve, featuring full-page illustrations as early as the 1900s.
Like Time, National Geographic has done an excellent job of branding its recognizable yellow border.


“Hey, we can sell more magazines with women in bikinis instead!”
— GQ’s marketing strategy
For a long time, every cover of GQ was pretty much the same. A white man in a suit. It’s a wonder it took them until 1990 to figure out that they might be able to sell more magazines by putting women on the cover instead.
GQ has gotten racy, sure — but also delightfully creative.
Damn, girl! This isn’t your average topless photoshoot.
GQ actually got in quite a bit of trouble for depicting Amy Schumer sexually with Star Wars characters. They didn’t get permission from Disney (who undoubtedly wouldn’t have granted it), and many Star Wars fans found it offensive. But Amy Schumer loved it, and said she would do it again.
Remarkably, The New Yorker hasn’t changed one bit.
The cover on the right is a special 90th anniversary issue, a clever recreation of the very first New Yorker cover on the left.
Compare the covers from decade to decade:
Pick out any cover at random, and it isn’t immediately obvious what time period it belongs to. With everything else that’s changed around us, The New Yorker has been remarkably consistent.
Their logo has endured 90 years. They continue to charm us with their hand-drawn illustrations. And unlike every other magazine, they haven’t been pressured into adding a bunch of text on the cover.
All magazines experiment with their design and learn what sells. And most other magazines — Cosmopolitan, Seventeen, Vogue, Time, GQ — have pretty much converged to the same design: a photo of a person, usually an attractive female, prominently featuring her face and body — with text headlines designed to get you to want to read what’s inside. This is the formula that sells their magazines.
Survival of the fittest, capitalism edition.
But not The New Yorker. It takes discipline to zig when everyone else is zagging.
You do you, New Yorker.


What 100 years of progress looks like:
What makes Caitlyn’s cover special is not just the subject matter, but the style as well. Let’s compare Caitlyn Jenner’s cover with every other cover in 2015:
The other covers are littered with mounds of text. Not this issue.
Call me Caitlyn. Just three words.
They didn’t need to sell the other stories. This issue was all about her. Vanity Fair nailed it.
You go, Caitlyn!


Together, these magazine covers reveal a peek into our history. Sure, we’ve gotten more sexualized. More superficial. We read less. We have shorter attention spans.
But we’ve also gotten more open-minded. At each step along the way, society has pushed the limits of what’s considered acceptable.
Not so long ago, black people couldn’t vote. Though they still face significant discrimination, they are also now idolized on magazine covers. As women have earned more rights over the years, they now take control of their sexuality. And Vanity Fair’s most iconic cover this year is a woman who used to identify as a man.
We’ve come a long way in 100 years.


Notice any trends we missed? Add your analysis in the comments.



Karen makes viral videos and explainer videos for startups. Follow her on Medium, Facebook or Instagram.
Jerry is product design consultant in San Francisco. Check out his portfolio.


Feel free to quote and embed the pictures on your publication. Please credit and link back: Karen X. Cheng and Jerry Gabra. Magazine covers are copyright by their respective publications. Comparison images created by Karen X. Cheng and Jerry Gabra. If you have questions, email karenxcheng (at) gmail (dot) com
Thanks to Orion Hombrebueno for research help. Thanks to Adam Lee, Oliver Emberton, Ketan Anjaria, Sam Brewczynski, Lynn Tao, Brooks Hassig and Rachman Blake for helpful feedback on drafts of this article.
I make viral videos and explainer videos for startups. http://karenx.com
By Hossein DerakhshanIllustrations by Tim McDonagh
Seven months ago, I sat down at the small table in the kitchen of my 1960s apartment, nestled on the top floor of a building in a vibrant central neighbourhood of Tehran, and I did something I had done thousands of times previously. I opened my laptop and posted to my new blog. This, though, was the first time in six years. And it nearly broke my heart.
A few weeks earlier, I’d been abruptly pardoned and freed from Evin prison in northern Tehran. I had been expecting to spend most of my life in those cells: In November 2008, I’d been sentenced to nearly 20 years in jail, mostly for things I’d written on my blog.
But the moment, when it came, was unexpected. I smoked a cigarette in the kitchen with one of my fellow inmates, and came back to the room I shared with a dozen other men. We were sharing a cup of tea when the voice of the floor announcer — another prisoner — filled all the rooms and corridors. In his flat voice, he announced in Persian: “Dear fellow inmates, the bird of luck has once again sat on one fellow inmate’s shoulders. Mr. Hossein Derakhshan, as of this moment, you are free.”
That evening was the first time that I went out of those doors as a free man. Everything felt new: The chill autumn breeze, the traffic noise from a nearby bridge, the smell, the colors of the city I had lived in for most of my life.
Around me, I noticed a very different Tehran from the one I’d been used to. An influx of new, shamelessly luxurious condos had replaced the charming little houses I was familiar with. New roads, new highways, hordes of invasive SUVs. Large billboards with advertisements for Swiss-made watches and Korean flat screen TVs. Women in colorful scarves and manteaus, men with dyed hair and beards, and hundreds of charming cafes with hip western music and female staff. They were the kinds of changes that creep up on people; the kind you only really notice once normal life gets taken away from you.
Two weeks later, I began writing again. Some friends agreed to let me start a blog as part of their arts magazine. I called it Ketabkhan — it means book-reader in Persian.
Six years was a long time to be in jail, but it’s an entire era online. Writing on the internet itself had not changed, but reading — or, at least, getting things read — had altered dramatically. I’d been told how essential social networks had become while I’d been gone, and so I knew one thing: If I wanted to lure people to see my writing, I had to use social media now.
So I tried to post a link to one of my stories on Facebook. Turns out Facebook didn’t care much. It ended up looking like a boring classified ad. No description. No image. Nothing. It got three likes. Three! That was it.
It became clear to me, right there, that things had changed. I was not equipped to play on this new turf — all my investment and effort had burned up. I was devastated.
Blogs were gold and bloggers were rock stars back in 2008 when I was arrested. At that point, and despite the fact the state was blocking access to my blog from inside Iran, I had an audience of around 20,000 people every day. Everybody I linked to would face a sudden and serious jump in traffic: I could empower or embarrass anyone I wanted.
People used to carefully read my posts and leave lots of relevant comments, and even many of those who strongly disagreed with me still came to read. Other blogs linked to mine to discuss what I was saying. I felt like a king.
The iPhone was a little over a year old by then, but smartphones were still mostly used to make phone calls and send short messages, handle emails, and surf the web. There were no real apps, certainly not how we think of them today. There was no Instagram, no SnapChat, no Viber, no WhatsApp.
Instead, there was the web, and on the web, there were blogs: the best place to find alternative thoughts, news and analysis. They were my life.
It had all started with 9/11. I was in Toronto, and my father had just arrived from Tehran for a visit. We were having breakfast when the second plane hit the World Trade Center. I was puzzled and confused and, looking for insights and explanations, I came across blogs. Once I read a few, I thought: This is it, I should start one, and encourage all Iranians to start blogging as well. So, using Notepad on Windows, I started experimenting. Soon I ended up writing on hoder.com, using Blogger’s publishing platform before Google bought it.
Then, on November 5, 2001, I published a step-to-step guide on how to start a blog. That sparked something that was later called a blogging revolution: Soon, hundreds and thousands of Iranians made it one of the top 5 nations by the number of blogs, and I was proud to have a role in this unprecedented democratization of writing.
Those days, I used to keep a list of all blogs in Persian and, for a while, I was the first person any new blogger in Iran would contact, so they could get on the list. That’s why they called me “the blogfather” in my mid-twenties — it was a silly nickname, but at least it hinted at how much I cared.
Every morning, from my small apartment in downtown Toronto, I opened my computer and took care of the new blogs, helping them gain exposure and audience. It was a diverse crowd — from exiled authors and journalists, female diarists, and technology experts, to local journalists, politicians, clerics, and war veterans — and I always encouraged even more. I invited more religious, and pro-Islamic Republic men and women, people who lived inside Iran, to join and start writing.
The breadth of what was available those days amazed us all. It was partly why I promoted blogging so seriously. I’d left Iran in late 2000 to experience living in the West, and was scared that I was missing all the rapidly emerging trends at home. But reading Iranian blogs in Toronto was the closest experience I could have to sitting in a shared taxi in Tehran and listening to collective conversations between the talkative driver and random passengers.
There’s a story in the Quran that I thought about a lot during my first eight months in solitary confinement. In it, a group of persecuted Christians find refuge in a cave. They, and a dog they have with them, fall into a deep sleep. They wake up under the impression that they’ve taken a nap: In fact, it’s 300 years later. One version of the story tells of how one of them goes out to buy food — and I can only imagine how hungry they must’ve been after 300 years — and discovers that his money is obsolete now, a museum item. That’s when he realizes how long they have actually been absent.
The hyperlink was my currency six years ago. Stemming from the idea of the hypertext, the hyperlink provided a diversity and decentralisation that the real world lacked. The hyperlink represented the open, interconnected spirit of the world wide web — a vision that started with its inventor, Tim Berners-Lee. The hyperlink was a way to abandon centralization — all the links, lines and hierarchies — and replace them with something more distributed, a system of nodes and networks.
Blogs gave form to that spirit of decentralization: They were windows into lives you’d rarely know much about; bridges that connected different lives to each other and thereby changed them. Blogs were cafes where people exchanged diverse ideas on any and every topic you could possibly be interested in. They were Tehran’s taxicabs writ large.
Since I got out of jail, though, I’ve realized how much the hyperlink has been devalued, almost made obsolete.
Nearly every social network now treats a link as just the same as it treats any other object — the same as a photo, or a piece of text — instead of seeing it as a way to make that text richer. You’re encouraged to post one single hyperlink and expose it to a quasi-democratic process of liking and plussing and hearting: Adding several links to a piece of text is usually not allowed. Hyperlinks are objectivized, isolated, stripped of their powers.
At the same time, these social networks tend to treat native text and pictures — things that are directly posted to them — with a lot more respect than those that reside on outside web pages. One photographer friend explained to me how the images he uploads directly to Facebook receive a large number of likes, which in turn means they appear more on other people’s news feeds. On the other hand, when he posts a link to the same picture somewhere outside Facebook — his now-dusty blog, for instance — the images are much less visible to Facebook itself, and therefore get far fewer likes. The cycle reinforces itself.
Some networks, like Twitter, treat hyperlinks a little better. Others, insecure social services, are far more paranoid. Instagram — owned by Facebook — doesn’t allow its audiences to leave whatsoever. You can put up a web address alongside your photos, but it won’t go anywhere. Lots of people start their daily online routine in these cul de sacs of social media, and their journeys end there. Many don’t even realize that they’re using the Internet’s infrastructure when they like an Instagram photograph or leave a comment on a friend’s Facebook video. It’s just an app.
But hyperlinks aren’t just the skeleton of the web: They are its eyes, a path to its soul. And a blind webpage, one without hyperlinks, can’t look or gaze at another webpage — and this has serious consequences for the dynamics of power on the web.
More or less, all theorists have thought of gaze in relation to power, and mostly in a negative sense: the gazer strips the gazed and turns her into a powerless object, devoid of intelligence or agency. But in the world of webpages, gaze functions differently: It is more empowering. When a powerful website — say Google or Facebook — gazes at, or links to, another webpage, it doesn’t just connect it — it brings it into existence; gives it life. Metaphorically, without this empowering gaze, your web page doesn’t breathe. No matter how many links you have placed in a webpage, unless somebody is looking at it, it is actually both dead and blind; and therefore incapable of transferring power to any outside web page.
On the other hand, the most powerful web pages are those that have many eyes upon them. Just like celebrities who draw a kind of power from the millions of human eyes gazing at them any given time, web pages can capture and distribute their power through hyperlinks.
But apps like Instagram are blind — or almost blind. Their gaze goes nowhere except inwards, reluctant to transfer any of their vast powers to others, leading them into quiet deaths. The consequence is that web pages outside social media are dying.
Even before I went to jail, though, the power of hyperlinks was being curbed. Its biggest enemy was a philosophy that combined two of the most dominant, and most overrated, values of our times: novelty and popularity, reflected by the real world dominance of young celebrities. That philosophy is the Stream.
The Stream now dominates the way people receive information on the web. Fewer users are directly checking dedicated webpages, instead getting fed by a never-ending flow of information that’s picked for them by complex –and secretive — algorithms.
The Stream means you don’t need to open so many websites any more. You don’t need numerous tabs. You don’t even need a web browser. You open Twitter or Facebook on your smartphone and dive deep in. The mountain has come to you. Algorithms have picked everything for you. According to what you or your friends have read or seen before, they predict what you might like to see. It feels great not to waste time in finding interesting things on so many websites.
But are we missing something here? What are we exchanging for efficiency?
In many apps, the votes we cast — the likes, the plusses, the stars, the hearts — are actually more related to cute avatars and celebrity status than to the substance of what’s posted. A most brilliant paragraph by some ordinary-looking person can be left outside the Stream, while the silly ramblings of a celebrity gain instant Internet presence.
And not only do the algorithms behind the Stream equate newness and popularity with importance, they also tend to show us more of what we’ve already liked. These services carefully scan our behaviour and delicately tailor our news feeds with posts, pictures and videos that they think we would most likely want to see.
Popularity is not wrong in and of itself, but it has its own perils. In a free-market economy, low-quality goods with the wrong prices are doomed to failure. Nobody gets upset when a quiet Brooklyn cafe with bad lattes and rude servers goes out of business. But opinions are not the same as material goods or services. They won’t disappear if they are unpopular or even bad. In fact, history has proven that most big ideas (and many bad ones) have been quite unpopular for a long time, and their marginal status has only strengthened them. Minority views are radicalized when they can’t be expressed and recognized.
Today the Stream is digital media’s dominant form of organizing information. It’s in every social network and mobile application. Since I gained my freedom, everywhere I turn I see the Stream. I guess it won’t be too long before we see news websites organize their entire content based on the same principles. The prominence of the Stream today doesn’t just make vast chunks of the Internet biased against quality — it also means a deep betrayal to the diversity that the world wide web had originally envisioned.
There’s no question to me that the diversity of themes and opinions is less online today than it was in the past. New, different, and challenging ideas get suppressed by today’s social networks because their ranking strategies prioritize the popular and habitual. (No wonder why Apple is hiring human editors for its news app.) But diversity is being reduced in other ways, and for other purposes.
Some of it is visual. Yes, it is true that all my posts on Twitter and Facebook look something similar to a personal blog: They are collected in reverse-chronological order, on a specific webpage, with direct web addresses to each post. But I have very little control over how it looks like; I can’t personalize it much. My page must follow a uniform look which the designers of the social network decide for me.
The centralization of information also worries me because it makes it easier for things to disappear. After my arrest, my hosting service closed my account, because I wasn’t able to pay its monthly fee. But at least I had a backup of all my posts in a database on my own web server. (Most blogging platforms used to enable you to transfer your posts and archives to your own web space, whereas now most platforms don’t let you so.) Even if I didn’t, the Internet archive might keep a copy. But what if my account on Facebook or Twitter is shut down for any reason? Those services themselves may not die any time soon, but it would be not too difficult to imagine a day many American services shut down accounts of anyone who is from Iran, as a result of the current regime of sanctions. If that happened, I might be able to download my posts in some of them, and let’s assume the backup can be easily imported into another platform. But what about the unique web address for my social network profile? Would I be able to claim it back later, after somebody else has possessed it? Domain names switch hands, too, but managing the process is easier and more clear— especially since there is a financial relationship between you and the seller which makes it less prone to sudden and untransparent decisions.
But the scariest outcome of the centralization of information in the age of social networks is something else: It is making us all much less powerful in relation to governments and corporations.
Surveillance is increasingly imposed on civilized lives, and it just gets worse as time goes by. The only way to stay outside of this vast apparatus of surveillance might be to go into a cave and sleep, even if you can’t make it 300 years.
Being watched is something we all eventually have to get used to and live with and, sadly, it has nothing to do with the country of our residence. Ironically enough, states that cooperate with Facebook and Twitter know much more about their citizens than those, like Iran, where the state has a tight grip on the Internet but does not have legal access to social media companies.
What is more frightening than being merely watched, though, is being controlled. When Facebook can know us better than our parents with only 150 likes, and better than our spouses with 300 likes, the world appears quite predictable, both for governments and for businesses. And predictability means control.
Middle-class Iranians, like most people in the world, are obsessed with new trends. Utility or quality of things usually comes second to their trendiness. In early 2000s writing blogs made you cool and trendy, then around 2008 Facebook came in and then Twitter. Since 2014 the hype is all about Instagram, and no one knows what is next. But the more I think about these changes, the more I realize that even all my concerns might have been misdirected. Perhaps I am worried about the wrong thing. Maybe it’s not the death of the hyperlink, or the centralization, exactly.
Maybe it’s that text itself is disappearing. After all, the first visitors to the web spent their time online reading web magazines. Then came blogs, then Facebook, then Twitter. Now it’s Facebook videos and Instagram and SnapChat that most people spend their time on. There’s less and less text to read on social networks, and more and more video to watch, more and more images to look at. Are we witnessing a decline of reading on the web in favor of watching and listening?
Is this trend driven by people’s changing cultural habits, or is it that people are following the new laws of social networking? I don’t know — that’s for researchers to find out — but it feels like it’s reviving old cultural wars. After all, the web started out by imitating books and for many years, it was heavily dominated by text, by hypertext. Search engines put huge value on these things, and entire companies — entire monopolies — were built off the back of them. But as the number of image scanners and digital photos and video cameras grows exponentially, this seems to be changing. Search tools are starting to add advanced image recognition algorithms; advertising money is flowing there.
But the Stream, mobile applications, and moving images: They all show a departure from a books-internet toward a television-internet. We seem to have gone from a non-linear mode of communication — nodes and networks and links — toward a linear one, with centralization and hierarchies.
The web was not envisioned as a form of television when it was invented. But, like it or not, it is rapidly resembling TV: linear, passive, programmed and inward-looking.
When I log on to Facebook, my personal television starts. All I need to do is to scroll: New profile pictures by friends, short bits of opinion on current affairs, links to new stories with short captions, advertising, and of course self-playing videos. I occasionally click on like or share button, read peoples’ comments or leave one, or open an article. But I remain inside Facebook, and it continues to broadcast what I might like. This is not the web I knew when I went to jail. This is not the future of the web. This future is television.
Sometimes I think maybe I’m becoming too strict as I age. Maybe this is all a natural evolution of a technology. But I can’t close my eyes to what’s happening: A loss of intellectual power and diversity, and on the great potentials it could have for our troubled time. In the past, the web was powerful and serious enough to land me in jail. Today it feels like little more than entertainment. So much that even Iran doesn’t take some — Instagram, for instance — serious enough to block.
I miss when people took time to be exposed to different opinions, and bothered to read more than a paragraph or 140 characters. I miss the days when I could write something on my own blog, publish on my own domain, without taking an equal time to promote it on numerous social networks; when nobody cared about likes and reshares.
That’s the web I remember before jail. That’s the web we have to save.
Log in to Medium and “recommend” this story.Follow Matter on Twitter | Like us on Facebook
Iranian-Canadian author, blogger. Freed from Evin prison after 6 yrs, in Nov 2014. Trying to get back to normal life. hoder@hoder.com
The story you’ve been missing.
Millions of narcissistic little jerks, reared by an uncommonly hysterical generation who instilled in their children the adamantine conviction that they are exceptional and necessarily worthy of respect, enrolled this week as freshman in universities across the United States.
There was a moment when this exercise might have tested these students, made better and new through confrontation with the uncomfortable and occasionally outrageous thought.
Now, instead, they will pass the next four years of pseudo-scholarship as they have the eighteen that preceded them: swaddled in institutionalized political correctness and protected always from the unconventional or provocative.
At two- and four-year colleges and universities all across the nation, administrators have adopted stringent “speech codes” that restrict speech and behavior otherwise explicitly protected under the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.
The result isn’t simply an emotionally delicate dolt, but a broader culture at jeopardy of losing the most foundational of human rights. Today’s over-sensitivity to offense means these students may be entirely desensitized to the loss of speech tomorrow, even in the face of gross government encroachment.
These speech codes stretch from the ludicrous, like Jacksonville State University’s* policy that students not offend anyone, to the plainly unlawful.
While regarded by administrators as a sort of legal prophylactic — if no one is offended, no one can bring suit against the university, the argument goes — these policies have actually invited serious and sustained litigation by students and civil liberties advocates.
According to a national policy review of more than 400 institutions of higher learning by the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE), a not-for-profit educational foundation, more than half of those schools with speech codes would not survive judicial review.
In the case of FIRE, some 36 schools have abandoned or severely restrained their speech codes after the group brought suit on behalf of aggrieved students and faculty whose right to lawful speech were infringed.
They’ve won, repeatedly, because the privilege not to be offended is no right at all. Moreover, intellectual discomfort is a necessary tool in emotional and scholastic development — and restrictive speech codes actively retard the process.
I should know: it wasn’t so long ago that I advanced from a parochial secondary school, wherein students were taught that man and dinosaur had once coexisted before a great flood washed the earth clean, to a monstrous state university where students learned genuine science.
This science was accepted, corroborated, quantifiable, and yet also deeply offensive to a child whose narrow appreciation for the world around him was fixed in young earth Creationism.
But my offense led to introspection, and in turn growth.
The new climate of institutionalized over-sensitivity that today plagues academia — the accepted belief that one has the right to never be offended — is so acute that dissent of any sort is not allowed. These policies require either conformity or silence, and they result in a dangerous chilling of the free exchange of ideas.
Millennials, the obnoxious selfie-snapping age cohort into which I was cursed to fall, are truly horrible enough without your help, academia. KTHXBAI.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely the author’s and do not necessarily reflect the views of his employer or clients.
*Ed. note: This article incorrectly attributed the speech code policy of Jacksonville State University to another university and has since been amended.
[Autonomous is a free digital magazine. But you can donate to the mission, and receive a variety of added benefits (including extra content), by visiting our Patreon page.]
A one-time flack for: @JonHuntsman, @HaleyBarbour, @RNC, @CRNC. Also, a yoga teacher.
A new look at American culture today, and where we’re headed — specifically, where culture intersects with politics, media, technology, morality and political correctness.

Countless books and articles have been written about Warren Buffett. Surprisingly few have been written about his business partner of over 40 years, Charlie Munger.
Munger has stayed out of the public eye, giving only a small number of public talks, and he’s rarely been covered in the media. At Berkshire Hathaway’s annual shareholder’s meetings, he lets Buffett answer the questions, often times commenting, “I have nothing to add.”
Recently, I decided to learn more about Munger’s 70-year career, and I’ve been blown away. His model for success, backed by research, is simple and game-changing. It flies in the face of conventional wisdom on career success.
Beyond The 10,000 Hour Rule
A great deal has been written about how deliberate practice over 10,000 hours within a specific area of expertise is the key to success.
While Munger has certainly worked long and hard to become one of the world’s top investors, the signature of his success is different. According to his own account, rather than focusing on investment theory like a laser, he has studied widely and deeply in many fields, including microeconomics, psychology, law, mathematics, biology, and engineering, and applied insights from them to investing.
Bill Gates has said of Munger, “He is truly the broadest thinker I have ever encountered. From business principles to economic principles to the design of student dormitories to the design of a catamaran he has no equal… Our longest correspondence was a detailed discussion on the mating habits of naked mole rats and what the human species might learn from them.” Munger has, in short, been the ultimate expert-generalist.
The Rise Of The Expert-Generalist
The rival argument to the 10,000 hour rule is the expert-generalist approach. Orit Gadiesh, chairman of Bain & Co, who coined the term, describes the expert-generalist as:
“Someone who has the ability and curiosity to master and collect expertise in many different disciplines, industries, skills, capabilities, countries, and topics., etc. He or she can then, without necessarily even realizing it, but often by design:
The concept is commonly represented by this model of the “T-shaped individual”:
While the 10,000 hour rule works well in areas with defined rules that don’t change such as sports, music, and games, the rules of business constantly and fundamentally change. Being an expert-generalist allows individuals to quickly adapt to change. Research shows that they:
Charlie Munger’s Approach To Being An Expert-Generalist
In connecting the dots across the disciplines, Munger has developed a set of what he calls models, which he uses to assess investment opportunities. In fact, he’s identified over 100 of these models that he uses frequently as of the publication of Poor Charlie’s Almanack. No doubt he continues to develop and perfect them.
What are these models exactly?
The best way to explain is to take the case of one he uses constantly, which he calls Two-Track analysis. It combines insights from psychology, neuroscience and economics about the nature of human behavior. This model instructs that when analyzing any situation in which decision-making by people is involved, which of course covers every business situation, he must consider two tracks:
Another example is classical conditioning developed by Ivan Pavlov in the early 20th century. Pavlov discovered that with the right conditioning, dogs would salivate not just when eating food, but also in anticipation of it when he walked into the laboratory. Munger applies the same logic to business. In his book, he gives the example of how Coca-Cola (one of Berkshire Hathaway’s largest holdings) conditions its customers with the right frequency and type of advertising while using their logo as the trigger.
The following is a summary of his rules on being an expert-generalist in his own words, excerpted and condensed from the various talks he’s given:
Rule #1: Learn Multiple Models
“The first rule is that you’ve got to have multiple models — because if you just have one or two that you’re using, the nature of human psychology is such that you’ll torture reality so that it fits your models.”
“It’s like the old saying, ‘To the man with only a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.’ But that’s a perfectly disastrous way to think and a perfectly disastrous way to operate in the world.”
Rule #2: Learn Multiple Models From Multiple Disciplines
“And the models have to come from multiple disciplines — because all the wisdom of the world is not to be found in one little academic department.”
Rule #3: Focus On Big Ideas From The Big Disciplines (20% Of Models Create 80% Of The Results)
“You may say, ‘My God, this is already getting way too tough.’ But, fortunately, it isn’t that tough — because 80 or 90 important models will carry about 90% of the freight in making you a worldly-wise person. And, of those, only a mere handful really carry very heavy freight.”
Rule #4: Use A Checklist To Ensure You’re Factoring in the Right Models
“Use a checklist to be sure you get all of the main models.”
“How can smart people be wrong? Well, the answer is that they don’t…take all the main models from psychology and use them as a checklist in reviewing outcomes in complex systems.”
Rule #5: Create Multiple Checklists And Use The Right One For The Situation
“You need a different checklist and different mental models for different companies. I can never make it easy by saying, ‘Here are three things.’ You have to drive it yourself to ingrain it in your head for the rest of your life.”
The Expert-Generalist Approach In Different Fields
Whether or not you decide to follow Munger’s particular approach, one clear takeaway is the value of gaining a wide breadth of knowledge while also drilling deeply into your area of specialty.
Many of the top scientists, business leaders, inventors and artists throughout time have also achieved their breakthrough successes by being an expert-generalist. Albert Einstein was trained in physics, but to formulate his law of general relativity, he taught himself an area of mathematics far removed from his expertise, Riemannian geometry. James Watson and Francis Crick combined discoveries in X-ray diffraction technology, chemistry, evolutionary theory and computation to solve the puzzle of the double helix. Steve Jobs, of course, drew on insights from his study of calligraphy and a rich understanding of design to create a new breed of computing devices.
Here is an infographic with 25 of the top expert-generalists throughout history:
Bain & Company chairman, Orit Gadiesh, attests to the value of being a voracious reader across many domains in her own career, saying:
What’s more, those who can bridge the gaps between silos are becoming more valuable than ever as the amount of knowledge in the world and its fragmentation continue to accelerate.
Being An Expert-Generalist Will Become More And More Valued
The discipline known as scientometrics is the science of science; it studies the evolution of scientific knowledge. Two of the key findings of this field are:
As disciplines emerge and mature, they develop their own cultures and languages. Each has its own terminology along with its own journals and annual conferences. This specialization has already become so extreme that those who are specialists in one subfield of a discipline often know little to nothing about the work going on in other subfields.
Consider the increasing specialization that has led to one important new area of science, epigenetics. Epigenetics is essentially the study of how environmental factors affect how our genes are expressed. When biology emerged as a field of its own out of medicine and natural history in the 19th century, it would have been possible for any biologist to gain a good grasp of the whole field. Today, many geneticists would tell you they don’t have any real understanding of the findings in epigenetics.
Given this state of affairs, many professionals have determined the best approached is to go into sub, sub, sub specialties, where they can hope to become one of the best if they follow the 10,000 rule. That can indeed be fruitful. But opportunities also abound for those who instead develop an aptitude for building connections across disciplines.
Expert-generalists face far less competition. The more fields you can pull from, the fewer people you’ll find taking the same approach. When it comes to drilling into one domain,the competition is generally fierce. Narrowly specializingalso leaves you vulnerable to the ever-more daunting forces of change. Orit Gadiesh offers insight in this regard:
“As technology, globalization, geopolitical challenges, and competition accelerate the disruption of business, people are confronted with challenges, customs, and issues they have never experienced before. I find that experts — someone with deep knowledge limited to just one area — often lack the flexibility needed to adapt to change and can be easily flustered or, worse, be completely derailed.”
Curiouser and Curiouser
The business world has placed great emphasis on focus, and rightly so. It is a vital ingredient of success. But more emphasis must now be placed on curiosity. Too often, we are so pressed by the day-to-day demands of work that we aren’t making time for exploration, diving into areas entirely outside our range of experience, letting our minds run, and finding inspiration from encountering new ideas with uncertain payoffs.
So, when you find yourself pushing back, the inner voice of work overload screaming that you don’t have time to be reading that book you just picked up about the physics of time travel or the novel someone recommended by the Nigerian Nobel Prize winner, remember this: Bill Gates recalls that the longest correspondence he’s had with Charlie Munger wasn’t about an investment, it was about the mating habits.
* * * * *
As a resource for this article, I put together a 27-page report you can download at no cost. It summarizes the psychological biases that Munger has identified throughout his 70-year career. I put it together because I didn’t see another summary anywhere else that was easy to comprehend or apply.
* * * * *
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Flossing. 30 minutes of daily physical activity. Morning meditation.
Yuck. Blah. Shit.
As someone who rarely succeeds in forming a new habit, I’m both proud and confounded to say I’ve somehow managed to start a daily ritual and keep up with it for the past eight months.
That ritual is called Morning Pages, and it has become part of my morning routine into the Escape School in London:
Wake up. Shower. Make a 3-egg and veg scramble. Walk to the Tube. Step onto the District line. Sit down. Pull out my notebook. Start writing.
My task is to write three pages, longhand. If I don’t hit three pages on my Tube ride (which I normally don’t), I duck into a coffeeshop to finish the rest.
So, what are these “Morning Pages” and why do I care so much about them?

Morning Pages is a practice introduced by Julia Cameron in The Artist’s Way, a book designed to help blocked creatives get unblocked.
Although it’s disguised as a book for “artists” — it’s really a guide for anyone who’s feeling stuck, unfulfilled in their work, or believe that their best music is left unsung (even if they don’t know what song they’re meant to be singing).
It’s a book to help people deal with that sonofabitch Steven Pressfield calls out by name in The War of Art: “The Resistance”
Cameron’s The Artist’s Way is meant for anyone who wants to tap back into their creative selves. Which frankly could be any of us. Because, if we’re honest, we’re all creative. Even if we’ve managed to forget that somewhere along the way.
There are two bedrock practices that Cameron swears by and implores her readers to undertake in The Artist’s Way. The first is Morning Pages. (The second is the Artist Date, which is an equally amazing practice, and which I’ll write about another time).
The practice of Morning Pages is simple: write three pages, long-hand, upon (or nearly upon) waking. No thinking, no analyzing, no stressing. Just write. Put pen to paper and squiggle it around until it forms words. What you write matters little. What matters is just that you write. Get whatever is at the forefront of your mind out of your mind and place it onto the page. Do not hold back. Do not judge. And do not stop until you’ve hit three pages.
This is not meant to be high art. The output of Morning Pages is not for public consumption. Cameron suggests they’re not even for private consumption:
I’ve come to love my morning pages. Which is unlike my love/hate relationship with writing publicly (my soul seems to require it, but damnit the process feels like wrestling with the Hulk). I love my morning pages because there is no heaviness in the outcome of the pages. It’s a form of unnecessary creation — just writing for the sake of writing. There may be heaviness in trying to form the habit of writing itself (more on this below), but once you crack that, it’s all lightness. It’s a lightness that lives in caring about the process itself, not in the outcome of that process.
Sometimes my morning pages are a streaming conscious-like flow of questions with half-assed answers. Sometimes they recount a day or a night or a moment. Other times they explore a philosophy, an idea, an obstacle or an opportunity. Sometimes they feel profound. Mostly they feel like bitching, and if read out loud, would resemble cracked-out crazy-person talk.
Which I suppose is the point. So much of our mind, if we’re paying attention, is cluttered and a’flutter with unhelpful, cracked-out thoughts. It’s this kind of muck that blocks us from doing the work we truly aspire to be doing; it’s the junk that hold us back from becoming the person we hope to become.
Whether it’s Morning Pages or some other ritual, it seems that people who create things that resonate or live storybook-like lives have some sort of daily practice. Entire books are even dedicated to the daily routines of accomplished people.
Whatever the routine, it seems that one purpose of these daily rituals is to get the noisy crazies out of the way to leave space for some magic to enter. If it chooses to enter. Or rather, put both the crazy and magic together on the same page so at least you can view them as peers and have a better shot at telling them apart.
Morning Pages is a sifter for the mind. Like meditation or running, it’s one more tool used to separate and disarm those unhelpful thoughts and help those introverted golden thoughts to shine through. Because there are gold in dem hills. Sometimes we just need a practice and a tool to help extract it.
Morning Pages have the potential to be cathartic, helpful and light. If there is a heaviness, it doesn’t exist in the ritual itself, but on the road toward the ritual.

I’m certainly no expert on building habits or rituals. (For that, I suggest checking out The Power of Habit by Charles Duhigg.) But if there’s anything I’ve learned from my newfound dedication to Morning Pages, it’s that there are ways to encourage a habit to stick.
Writing and becoming a better writer is something that drives me. It’s a strong craving I fell into when I started this blog. It’s something I can’t seem to shake.
For the habit you hope to create — what is your burning why behind it all? Why bother with this habit at all?
Sometimes the craving can come from a pain that’s too tough to bear.
Craving or pain, try to articulate and harness a strong emotion and align it with the why behind the habit. Find it and hold it tightly. Tie it to the new habit you hope to form. Use it as fuel. Give it a purpose. Your habit depends on it.
My Morning Pages has a friend — my already established daily routine.
When I sit down on the Tube, the act of pulling out my notebook has become a knee-jerk reaction. It happens almost without me thinking.
My Morning Pages also has a kryptonite — the absence of my routine.
When I do not take the Tube in the morning, when I am rushing to a meeting, when my morning routine is shaken up — my habit crumbles. My Morning Pages live and die by my ability to keep a routine.
Ideally, if the habit has sustained long enough, it will become its own ingrained habit like eating breakfast or brushing teeth. Which is a ritual’s goal: to become a routine itself so that another new ritual can piggyback on top of it.
What’s my reward for having done morning pages? For one, it’s the satisfaction of achieving a little sliver of clarity and comfort that the Pages tend to deliver. It doesn’t always come. But the times that it does makes it worth the daily habit.
There’s also the reward of having written and documented my thoughts. It’s being able to look at my stack of weathered notebooks and know that I’ve created something, just for the sake of it. For the sake of remembering that I am a human and therefore can create. And that when faced with the choice to either create or not create — I went forth and created.
And finally, as someone who sways toward introversion, I’ve noticed it takes dedication, care and patience to make myself heard. Even if it’s only to myself.
Like the simple truth Bertie learns leading up to his final battle with the mic in The King’s Speech, Morning Pages helps to remind me: “I have a voice.”
And if that isn’t reward enough, I’m not sure what is.
Thank you for reading.
If you enjoyed this and think it can help others, will you please “Recommend” or share with a friend?
And if you want to stay in touch with me (Matt), please join me…On my home turf: GiveLiveExploreIn London at The Escape SchoolOR…In the English countryside for a weekend of fun & adventure: Escape to the Woods
Former consultant turned deliberate journeyer @ GiveLiveExplore.com. Building a school for corp escapees @escthecity. Publishing @TalesofIceland. Speaking @TEDx
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

What is one thing most successful people have in common? They get up extra early and make the most of the morning. Here’s why:
Waking up early gives you time to think before the buzz of the day begins. To put it simply, the early morning is “you time” — a time to lay out your priorities for the day and make progress against them, before others are demanding your time and attention. It puts you firmly in control of each day.
Of course it is awfully hard to get out of bed, but that’s exactly why early risers have the competitive advantage over everyone else. They tackle the day while others hit the snooze button.
Here are just a few examples of ultra-successful early risers:
Did you notice another consistent trend among all of these ultra-successful people? Everyone’s morning ritual includes exercise as a key component.
In addition to the overall health and fitness benefits, studies have shown that moderate-intensity exercise for 20+ minutes produces a mental and emotional boost for the following 12 hours! This means that these business leaders are likely more clear-headed, effective, and productive at work as a direct result of their morning workout. The exercise time also allows them to think and problem-solve without interruption, so they hit the ground running once they get into the office. Morning exercise is an incredibly efficient use of time.
In addition to waking up extra early and exercising, here are a few more morning habits to get your day moving in the right direction:
All of this sets you up for success before your “work day” even begins, whatever form that may take for you. Being a morning person isn’t reserved for just C-level execs. Everyone will benefit from implementing these good habits.
Think it’s not possible for you because you need the extra sleep? The experts would say to get to bed earlier the night before to make the early wake-up call tolerable.
These tips and success stories help motivate me to get out of bed when all I want to do is sleep a bit more, and hopefully they also inspire you to make the morning your secret weapon!
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
If you enjoyed this post, please hit the “recommend” button below. Thanks!
For more stories like this one, “Follow” me to see my latest posts.
I write about good habits for productivity, health, happiness, & success. Marketing at Clif Bar, formerly Red Bull, Dodgers, Red Sox. Twitter @andrewmerle
Sharing our ideas and experiences
Everyday, I receive emails, LinkedIn smail (spam mail), texts and/or Facebook messages from people looking for resume help. I typically don’t respond to them — not because I don’t want to help but because they’re not listening to me when I tell them that any resume I create is NOT going to get them a job.
And, let me be straight, it’s not because I’m not good at fabricating bullet points for them.
The reason upgrading their resume isn’t going to work is because it’s not a resume that scores you a job. It’s relationships.
Have you ever heard the saying: “It’s who you know?”
It’s the absolute truth.
Today, I’m going to detail how you can land a job, and it does NOT involve me (or you) writing or editing your resume.
What it does involve is learning how to navigate your email inbox and woo your way into hiring managers’ (or their bosses’).

Duh! This is what you’re probably thinking.
It’s not what I’m thinking though since I receive emails from senders with addresses like “popprincess69@aol.com” and “iluvaaron@yahoo.com.”
Alright, alright, those are extreme examples, but they’re not far off, and they’re actually REAL humans — not spam bots.
Here’s my setup tips. Read them. I bet there’s something you forgot!
This is the prettiest email signature solution. Not only is it a better looking option but it is also easy to switch signatures between email accounts.
Yesware reports email opens, link clicks and file attachment downloads. This is valuable because it lets you know if you should follow up with someone or not and when, if you should. It also has a template feature many of you could use. Let’s say you’re applying to jobs, and you’re finding that you’re saying basically the same thing every time you email hiring managers. Write and save a template in Yesware then just personalize it from now on. That could knock off a lot of time for you.
Crystal isn’t kidding when it claims to be the biggest improvement to email since spell check. This email extension creates unique personality profiles for every person with an online presence, prepping you to speak or write in someone else’s natural, communication style. Crystal not only makes recommendations on which words you should use, but it even generates email templates based on the person you’re communicating with.
A LOT of emails are being tracked for clicks and opens. Use Ugly Email, a free gmail extension that tells you when an email is being tracked before you open it. This circumvents problems like opening an email and then not responding or opening the email 75 million times, which makes you look unproductive.
If you want to know other email tools I love check out this article.
According to Mindtools, the average office worker receives around 80 emails each day.
That makes it REALLY EASY for hiring managers to skip over your email, when it includes an error. Your email has an error if it’s:
The perfect email is short, easily scannable and includes a very clear call-to-action (CTA).
If you forget any of my tips, don’t forget this one!!! Make your email easily scannable. That means break up paragraphs into one sentence — two, if you must.
By this I mean utilize bold text, italics, and bullet points. This helps make your email easily scannable. Sometimes I even change important text’s color to red or highlight important sentences in bright yellow.
Send or schedule (if you use Yesware), your emails at optimal times. Think about it for a second. The best time to send a job request/application is most likely not at 1 a.m. on a Saturday night/morning. Monday probably isn’t good either because professionals will be busy playing catch up. I recommend sending between Tuesday and Thursday, in the morning or afternoon, say between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m.
Here are the elements of a damn good email.
Subject LineThe goal of your subject line is to drive the person you want to read your email to, well, open it to read the damn thing. I like to do this by complimenting the receiver in the subject line and letting them know that I want to provide value to them.
See how I did this in the fictitious example above to myself?
I told them I was a HUGE fan then preceded to tell them I wanted to HELP them do something.
Message
A mentor once told me to send 50 emails per week to get what I wanted, and our advisor, said he used to send as many as 300 per week to get generate new business.
Emails are how you get what you want from someone you don’t know, i.e. hiring managers.
Here’s what you got to do.
Yes, 25. That isn’t a lot so I don’t feel bad assigning you that many.
You may say: But, Lauren, there are not 25 jobs posted that I want.
And I’ll say: But, Jimmy, that does not matter at all.
According to ABC, 80 percent of jobs are landed through networking.
Emailing allows you to network with people across the nation, not just those professionals in your city; therefore, if you want a job in NY but live in Idaho, you can simply shoot off an email introducing yourself to someone you admire in New York.
People to send emails to:
This is pretty self-explanatory. I reread my emails nearly five to six times before I hit send… And I still catch errors sometimes. #Embarrassing
I HATE following up because the last thing I ever want to be to someone I want something from is annoying. But guess what?! I do. Because if you don’t ask for what you want then you’ll never get what you want, and sometimes you have to ask for it multiple times.
Like Mark Cuban says, “Every no gets me closer to a yes.”
Too many of you give up too easily.
What if a hiring manager only responded to those who had enough gumption to write a follow up to her lack of response the first time?
It could happen. I’m sure there’s a manager out there that does this although I’m also sure that it’s rare.
Neil Patel recommends the template I took a screenshot of and copied below.
Here’s a few templates from this post on The Muse.
Here’s an example from when I followed up after a hiring manager had me complete an assignment, but then didn’t follow up with me within a week, as he promised.
Basically, just remember keep follow up emails short and to the point and don’t forget to provide alternatives for the receiver. Alternatives could include something like them delegating what you want to someone else. This way you always get what you want — a response.
This is how you get a job, my friends, — by creating relationships with people.
I don’t receive job offers on the reg because I’ve sent this perfectly concocted resume to millions of hiring managers.
Job offers come to me because I’ve invested the time to build a strong, helpful network of influential individuals in my field.
founder, freelanship.com | growth, inbound.org | entrepreneur editor, sitepoint.com
Some really awesome, forward-thinking stuff.
by Tobias van Schneider — First appeared in my personal email list.

We’re always waiting for inspiration to find us. We’re waiting to get inspired to paint this perfect piece of art, to build the next big thing or to come up with this great advertising idea. We’re just sitting there waiting.
I still do it sometimes, like an idiot as if I don’t know better after all these years of chasing inspiration.
The problem with finding the perfect inspiration is that it’s just a romantic dream. Waiting for inspiration to show up and solve my problems is really nothing more than an empty promise.
Inspiration is a little bit like love. Seeking for the perfect love is like seeking for perfect inspiration. The harder you try, the longer it will take. It’s like magic, maybe even luck.
Now you might think that luck is not fair and rather unpredictable because some have more and some have less. For me luck is more like an attitude.
You might not be able to control your own luck or inspiration, but you can definitely enhance it’s chances by putting yourself in positions where luck & inspiration is more likely to happen.
When talking about inspiration, we first need to stop seeking inspiration. This might sound counterproductive at first and appears to involve risk because we often work under pressure, and we don’t have the time to stop thinking about something we actually need to think about.
Let’s just imagine inspiration exists as a random pattern in our life, as in the example I illustrated below. When forcing to find inspiration (see 1) my path is very linear/narrow and the chances are pretty low to get hit by inspiration — It will probably take forever.
If I don’t try to force inspiration to happen, my path appears to be more organic & random (see 2). I might go for a walk, I go to the movies, read a book or just start working. It doesn’t matter what I do, but what happens is that I put myself in situations where I’m more likely to get hit by those little spots of inspiration.
The key is to start doing something, RIGHT NOW! — It’s about to start working immediately even if you don’t feel inspired or know where you are going yet. Inspiration will only hit you once you are already in motion, not while standing still doing nothing.
And as Pablo Picasso already said:
This is an interesting concept because it completely goes against our logic that we first have to be inspired in order to work. But in reality that’s a lie — It’s exactly the other way around.
So the next time you say “I just don’t feel inspired right now” you know how to fix it. Start working right now and create your own inspiration.
Happy SundayTobias
___I’m Tobias, a Product Design Lead at Spotify NYC. Founder of Authentic Weather & Semplice, Advisor & UX at memomi — www.vanschneider.com
Director of Fun & Product Design Lead at Spotify NYC / Founder @semplicelabs — Board of Directors @AIGANYC + Advisor @memorymirror

We love data and we track everything here at .io. So couple of weeks ago we decided to track our team performance in terms of keyboard and mouse activity during the working day.
Our team is small — 1 designer, 2 developers and 2 content editors. And a couple of management guys of course. Our office is at the floor 23, so apart from staring in the window we work a lot here.
We installed simple Chrome plugin on every macbook and collected some statistics within a week with our event tracking system t.onthe.io.
Developers showed pretty unexpected figures. They have less keypresses than editors and managers — around 4k every day.


The most popular key is Command (on Macs) — 20% of all keys. The least popular is Spacebar. They use Tab key 5 times more frequently than all the rest team members together.
Their activity during the day (and night) is the less predictable and the activity graphs have lots of smooth areas and jumps. That’s because they walk around, think a lot and after a “eureka” moment sit down and write tons of code.
Managers are total winners in terms of amount of pressed keys — 3 times more than developers and even 1.5 times more than editors!


They press a key every 3 seconds in average. Emails take a lot.
Managers’ activity during the day is quite stable — they write and receive letters all day long. An average amount of keys pressed during the day is 23k and more. Spammers.
Editors are typing twice as much as developers and make less mistakes. Backspace usage is less than for all the rest team.


And the most popular key is… the space — 10% of all keypresses.
Editors’ activity is not stable but pretty predictable. Activity peaks fall on the beginning of the day — when all the articles are written. For the rest of the day they read them through, replace the words, read again and again, and then post.
Designer is pretty predictable — Command and Backspace are two buttons that he presses 20% of all. He does more mouse moves than developers and content editors together. His mouse travels 1 kilometer every day.

Office manager is the least active, making only 2k keypresses per day. That’s 5 times less than managers. 11% of all used keys is Space.
What’s curious — the least popular keys are Capslock and Right Mouse Button. Somewhere around 0.1% of all keypresses together. It’s time to make some changes to keyboards.
So we have managers who are keypress leaders. Designer who is a mouse movement champion. And editors who are doing 2 times less errors than the team average.
Now we are wondering what we should track next. Ideas?

Bruce Lee wanted one of his students to die.
Then he explained why.
And he’s right. I’ve seen this happen to people in my own life.
My best friend growing up died from it. He just gave up. He stopped.
Every day you can decide: 1% up. Or 1% down. You never notice it from day to day because it’s such a small difference.
Pick one area of your life you love. And improve it 1%.
It’s the most important thing you will do today.
Written by someone being trained by Bruce Lee:
“Bruce had me up to three miles a day, really at a good pace. We’d run the three miles in twenty-one or twenty-tow minutes. Just under eight minutes a mile [Note: when running on his own in 1968, Lee would get his time down to six-and-a-half minutes per mile].
So this morning he said to me “We’re going to go five.”
I said, “Bruce, I can’t go five. I’m a helluva lot older than you are, and I can’t do five.”
He said, “When we get to three, we’ll shift gears and it’s only two more and you’ll do it.”
I said “Okay, hell, I’ll go for it.”
So we get to three, we go into the fourth mile and I’m okay for three or four minutes, and then I really begin to give out.
I’m tired, my heart’s pounding, I can’t go any more and so I say to him, “Bruce if I run any more,” — and we’re still running — “if I run any more I’m liable to have a heart attack and die.”
He said, “Then die.” It made me so mad that I went the full five miles.
Afterward I went to the shower and then I wanted to talk to him about it.
I said, you know, “Why did you say that?”
He said, “Because you might as well be dead. Seriously, if you always put limits on what you can do, physical or anything else, it’ll spread over into the rest of your life. It’ll spread into your work, into your morality, into your entire being. There are no limits. There are plateaus, but you must not stay there, you must go beyond them. If it kills you, it kills you. A man must constantly exceed his level.”
More From James
Latest Podcast: Ep 125: Rich Roll & Julie Piatt: Quit the NonsenseIs it possible to transform your life on the eve of your 40th birthday, and experience meaning, vitality, and purpose like you’ve never before imagined?
Latest Ask Altucher: Ep 335: Q&A DayWhat’s an effective way to deal with complainers? James says help the complainer focus on other things, and if they’re a chronic complainer, then just remove yourself from the conversation. You’ll notice the complaints will slow down.
Recommended Article: The One Learning Technique That Scared The S*** Out of Bruce LeeBruce Lee said, “I don’t fear the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks. I fear the man who practiced one kick 10,000 times.
For some reason, I've turned myself inside out and all my guts have spilled onto my blog. One day I'll run out of stuff but not yet.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Leaders lately aren’t. Here are their four top mistakes.
Whether it’s the rise of the extreme right in Europe, Donald Trump’s ascent in the US, Canada’s stunning plunge into fringe politics, the world is awash in a new political phenomenon: a tsunami of vocal, angry extremism, where once placid waters calmly shimmered. Not extreme enough for you? In one of the world’s most advanced societies, unemployed kids, of which there are too many, are going to have to go…not to school, college, or even community service…but to boot camp.
WTF?
In this short essay, I want to offer a lens through which to see this phenomenon. A few years ago, there was a huge leadership deficit in the world. No one, it seemed, was steering the ship. And perhaps you thought things couldn’t get worse. But today things are different: there’s not a deficit of leadership anymore. There is a surplus of bad leadership. Too many angry, blind pilots pointing ships…straight into the icebergs. Leadership, it appears, has fallen into a deep abyss. From which it must climb out, if it is to regain its place in the world again.
And before I begin let me note. This isn’t an essay I particularly want to write. But the truth is that there are too few voices speaking too few simple truths about this unsettling — and profoundly self-destructive — phenomenon.
Let us, then, put our prejudices aside, and examine these new leaders. So we may see what they stand for — and whether it is worth believing in. What is striking — and immediately obvious — is that they share four positions in common; and that is what distinguishes them as a phenomenon, a class, a category, a larger movement.
Fatalism. Donald Trump wants to deport even the innocent children of undocumented immigrants — and build a Great Wall of America. David Cameron has literally shut down immigration to the UK. In Australia, refugees (who are innocent of any crime) are detained in offshore prisons where they are allegedly waterboarded. What the neo-demagogues share, above all, is an absurd answer to the great question of social inclusion: none. The evidence, of course, suggests squarely that immigration (among other kinds of inclusion) is a great benefit to society. But the demagogue exploits people’s selfishness in an age of stagnation — why should the immigrant have any, when I suddenly have barely enough?
The demagogue exploits people’s selfishness because his is a world of zero-sum thinking. If I have more, you must have less. Hence, it is “logical”, the demagogues claims to wish everyone ill. Immigrants, the disabled, the poor, the vulnerable — when all these people have more, they are taking bread from your mouth!! That is the central claim of the demagogue, and it is present everywhere in their economic policies — which are simply largely excuses to beggar everyone’s neighbor. Hence, the demagogue proposes no real social policies at all — only cutting society…all the way to zero. Hence, Cameron in the UK is eviscerating the NHS, BBC, and more; Canada and Australia, too, are beginning to dismantle their great public institutions. After all, that is the logical endpoint of beggar-thy-neighbor: there are no public goods worth investing in at all.
But that is not what prosperity is at all: any reasoned understanding of it begins with the notion that if I am to have less for you to have more, then no one is better off in the first place; we have merely changed places. True prosperity is beyond the demagogue’s logic entirely: it is a state where both you and I benefit from one another’s existence, despite what it costs us. That may seem a subtle point. But it is the starting point for the great enterprise known as the social contract — for without a shared prosperity, there is no reason for citizens to bother with one another at all. To simplify: the demagogue tells us that social contracts are impediments in the way of prosperity — not its foundations and arches. And so he reduces the great accomplishments of history to rubble.
There’s a simpler way to put the zero-sum assumption of the demagogue: fatalism. It is a belief that the immigrant, the weak, the vulnerable — these cannot benefit the strong, the sure, those who “belong”; they simply do not have the potential to. It is a fatalistic disbelief in human potential itself. And you can’t be much of a leader if you don’t believe in human potential.
Scapegoating. You will note that the true cause of economic stagnation is not addressed by the demagogue at all. It wasn’t immigrants, the poor, or the vulnerable that caused a financial crisis. So who was it? Duh. It was bankers — who malinvested in toxic assets, and then flogged them, for a double profit, right back to the state, which promptly then had a crisis because it’s balance sheet suddenly went to hell. It’s so painfully stupid I have to say it again: the economy melted down because of badly run banks, not (of all people) immigrants — and frankly, if you believe anything but, you are a rube, a sucker, a mark. You think your plumber somehow flushed ten trillion dollars down the toilet?
Let me put it plainly. To persecute immigrants and the poor for a weak economy instead of bankers is like blaming your pet kitten for terrorism. That is precisely what neo-demagogues are doing when they blame immigrants (and other vulnerable groups) for weak economies: scapegoating them.
Nowhere — in not a single advanced economy — do we see demagogues calling for bankers to be prosecuted and brought to justice for ruining the economy — not a single modern day demagogue has called for it. But they are relentless, and extreme, in their persecution of people that didn’t ruin it. The interesting question is: why? It isn’t just that banks are the demagogue’s friend. Rather, it is because demagogues do not understand how the economy works at all. They equate money with wealth — and so they do not understand that wealth is what prosperity is actually composed of, and money is merely paper that helps us distribute it; therefore, money must be hoarded, concentrated, and denied to those who haven’t “earned” it — instead of distributed widely, precisely so society can continue to prosper. Real leaders don’t scapegoat: they do precisely the opposite — they celebrate (and reward) those who have truly bettered us.
Timidity. You may think that demogagues, angry and loud as they are, are reckless firebrands. But the truth is that they are timid, cowering, panicked things. Let me explain.
Because the demagogue believes that money is wealth, the next plank in his plan for society is to “eliminate the deficit”. But this is a negative real interest rate world. Little could be more mind-bendingly absurd. It’s so illogical I struggle to find a metaphor. Restoring economic health by cutting the deficit in a negative interest rate world is like trying not to have sex in order to reproduce.
Think about it. There are mountains of capital moving around the globe in desperate search of investment opportunities (hence, the super rich stashing money in London and NYC real estate). There has rarely been a better time for governments to invest, and invest with a vengeance, in modern history. Societies should be building gleaming new schools, hospitals, roads, bridges…giving free money to students…raising the salaries of teachers and other public employees…everything and anything under the sun that society so visibly needs.
Let me make the logic crystal clear. If I offered to lend you a million dollars, at a negative interest rate of ten percent a year, for 100 years, would you accept? You’d be one of history’s great fools not to. You’d have to pay me back…zero; in fact, I’d owe you money. You could simply invest a market index, or even just hold cash, and you’d make free money. Your timidity would lead you to miss a life-changing opportunity.
But that is exactly what demagogues don’t want governments to do. They believe, timidly — and have convinced foolish people — that nations are “going broke”; that they cannot “afford to” invest in public goods, like schools, hospitals, roads, or clean air and water. Why? Not just because they are economic illiterates — but because they are devoted to their own ignorance. They fetishize the deficit like a wrathful god to be ritualistically appeased with human sacrifice. But real leaders don’t timidly, fearfully obey empty commandments—they are bold and wise enough to revolt. Especially against hollow gods, whether made of stone or of numbers, in the promise of each life’s possibility to grow and mature.
Dehumanization. It’s possible, of course, for demagoguery to come from either left or right. But what is characteristic of neo-demagogues today is that they are products of the extreme right. Why? Because, in the wake of financial crisis, in the teeth of economic stagnation, people are overwhelmed by anxieties and fears that have left them angry, worried, and confused. How will my children prosper? How will I retire? Who will take care of me in my old age? How will we afford to maintain the lifestyle to which we are accustomed?
The demagogue’s choice is to provide people answers which exploit their prejudices and biases, and prey on their ignorance and foolishness. Demagogues, in short, bring out the worst in people. And that is why they are very effective politicians. They may arouse the passions of people. But they do so in the same that a drug dealer might. They awaken people’s appetites for self-destruction and hate — not for creation, nobility, and greatness.
Let me explain.
The demagogue justifies his claims with a very simple appeal. If we’d exclude the weak, pay off the bills, and punish the undeserving, the demagogue claims, everyone else could have a life worth living. And that life is precisely the same for all the neo-demagogues of meta-modernity. It is a dream of hyperrational individualistic materialism: a McMansion, a fleet of cars, and gadgets for every family. So what’s wrong with that? Nothing.
But there’s not much right with it, either. The simple truth is that is the least a great society should aspire to. More than mere material prosperity, a society that wishes to be truly great must encourage it’s people to be great. Great thinkers, artists, healers, teachers, leaders, creators, dreamers, builders. Not just grinning brain-dead zombie-consumers sucking down the dregs of post-capitalist prosperity left at the bottom of the cup through a broken straw of corrupt institutions and wrecked social contracts. But that is precisely what the neo-demagogues of meta-modernity want us to be.
That is their true gleaming flaw. Not merely that they call forth the worst in us. But that they do not do justice to the best in us. For the best that they want for us is merely the worst in us…not to be great, noble, wondrous people, who do amazing and remarkable things…but merely to be monsters with insatiable appetites. Not beings, who, though born in sin, defiantly ever hold the possibility of grace in our broken hearts.
That is the tragedy of the demagogues. They ask us to hate. But they do not know that we must, if we are to live fully, love. Not merely in the empty technological consumerist sense — a tap, a swipe, a date, and a hangover. But in the true and timeless sense. We must brim over with mercy if we are to know grace. We must overflow with humility if we are to know meaning. We must burst open our selves if we are to know their place in creation. It is not enough for us to be consumers, bullies, predators, smiling monsters denouncing our neighbors, if we are to be the people we were meant to be. We must be dreamers, rebels, renegades, heretics, outlaws. Everything, in short, that the demagogues do not want us to be.
That, of course, is our great challenge. To be the very leaders that a broken, hunted, anxious world is so desperately missing.

UmairNYCAugust 2015

Photo credit.
author, economist, slayer of zombies.
Essays  by Umair Haque

UPDATE: Thanks to a good friend of mine, at the end of this text is the English version.Thank you very much Giovana Angelo.
Todos têm um limite, mesmo os jornalistas e fotojornalistas, e embora seja difícil de chegar a ele, hoje eu cheguei.
E passei dele.
Começo esse texto com dois pedidos de desculpas:
1º — Sei que várias vezes critiquei a postura de alguns fotógrafos que se deixavam levar pelo calor da situação quando deveriam apenas observar e registrar, mas hoje fui eu que me vi nessa situação;
2º — Não irei usar uma linguagem jornalística neste texto. Já que cruzei a fronteira uma vez, vou aproveitar a viagem, então se preparem, não vou segurar a língua.
Pois bem, já sabia que hoje seria um espetáculo bizarro, cheio de coisas que, como diria um grande amigo meu (abraço para você meu caro amigo Américo), fariam um macaco vomitar.
Normalmente eu parto da política de apenas registar fotograficamente os eventos sem interferência nenhuma, sem questionar ou discutir além do necessário para o trabalho, mas acho que todo mundo tem um limite, além do que, já deixei para trás faz tempo a ilusão de que existe o jornalismo imparcial. Aliás, essa foi uma descoberta bacana, porque pude entender que posso me posicionar e ainda assim fazer um trabalho jornalístico decente.
Já no final da tarde, um grupo de membros dos Jornalistas Livres resolveu fazer uma intervenção onde uma bandeira do Brasil era estendida e uma pessoa deitava sobre ela, toda coberta de sangue (ketchup, só para constar) enquanto sua mãe pranteava sua morte. Depois disso, um cartaz era colocado com os dizeres Falta vermelho nessa bandeira. Claro que qualquer pessoa com o mínimo de bom senso teria notado que isso era uma menção à chacina ocorrida no final de semana em Barueri e Osasco, mas como o “sangue” era vermelho, isso foi o suficiente para decretar que aquelas pessoas eram petistas. Sem julgamento, sem chance de defesa, apenas com um júri/juiz/executor, ou melhor dizendo, uma turba de acéfalos que não faziam ideia do que estavam falando.
É claro que não sou ingênuo de achar que essa ação por mais que tenha um fundo crítico e politizado, teve sua parte de provocação, mas até então isso não deveria ser problema já que todos batiam no peito ao dizer que era um protesto pacífico e democrático (precisam urgentemente rever o conceito de democrático) além de sequer terem mencionado “aqueles que não devem ser nominados” (só para não ficar dúvida, estou falando de Dilma, Lula e o PT).
Durante a performance, quando a atriz estava deitada, duas pessoas que são dessa gente de bem resolveram participar da intervenção (#sqn) da forma que esse povo entende por democracia: Uma senhora, na casa dos seus 40 anos, muito bem vestida resolveu pintar a testa da atriz com as tintas que ela carregava. Um outro rapaz, mais eufórico, pegou uma caneca de plástico, também cheia de tinta, e atirou contra ela.
A atriz, como uma boa morta, não se mexia, não reclamava, apenas ficava ali inerte, cumprindo o seu papel e jogando na cara deles uma realidade que praticamente todos ali faziam questão de ignorar.
Quando a atriz se levantou já no encerramento da intervenção, ela ficou ali parada, em pé, com o olhar perdido e ignorando os gritos que a chamavam de bandida, vagabunda, ladrão (sim, eles tem problemas em concordar os gêneros eu acho) e outras coisas.
Não bastasse, mais um manifestante resolveu colar na testa dela um adesivo, numa pífia tentativa de chamar a atenção ou, a probabilidade que mais me assusta, de realmente achar que estava fazendo algo bom, algo correto.
Depois disso, me dirigi ao cidadão que jogou a tinta na atriz e à mulher que havia pintado o rosto dela. Ambos estavam próximos (talvez a gente realmente atraia aquilo que emanamos…) e pedi se podia gravar uma declaração deles sobre o que havia acontecido ali e também sobre o que fizeram.
O cara (vou chamá-lo assim já que nem o nome quis dizer) diz “Não cara, melhor não” e a mulher diz “não quero, não autorizo”. Nessa hora perguntei porque eles tiveram peito de jogar a tinta, mas não tinham a mesma coragem para falar e serem filmados e a resposta foi o primeiro passo além do meu limite.
O cara me chama de canto e fala baixo em meu ouvido que não queria falar porque ele já havia sido filiado a partidos políticos e isso poderia pegar mal para ele. Bizarro não? Jogar tinta em uma pessoa não pega mal, mas dar uma entrevista falando o porque de ter feito isso pega muito mal.
A dama da paulista disse que fez isso porque era uma provocação dos petistas, quando retruquei dizendo que aquele ato não tinha relação com o PT e era uma crítica aos assassinatos do final de semana. Com toda a educação do mundo (e arrogância de um burguês no sentido literal da palavra) ela me disse que “Ali não era lugar pra fazer isso. Se quisessem protestar que fossem fazer isso lá em Osasco e não ali na Paulista”. Com um profundo pesar (pelo tipo de ser humano que ela era) perguntei se a violência na periferia não era uma pauta que merecia ser levada às ruas, mas ela disse que “não, coisa da periferia tem que ser resolvida na periferia” e após proferir essa frase abundante em bondade, democracia e justiça (vale lembrar que virava e mexia se ouvia nos trio elétricos alguém dizendo que eles não estavam lá por se preocuparem com seus próprios umbigos, mas sim por querer o melhor para o país todo. Aham… senta lá Cláudia!) ela encerrou o assunto dizendo “Você não concorda comigo e eu não concordo com você, então não tem porque conversarmos.”. Não sei se só para mim isso soou como você está comigo ou está contra mim.
Saí dali e fui até a esquina onde os atores haviam ido para retomar a intervenção, próximo de um destacamento de policiais.
Novamente foram seguidos por várias pessoas que continuavam com seus gritos de ordem (aqueles que falei antes lembram? Petistas, vagabundos, ladrões, miseráveis e outros. Lembraram?). Nesse momento eu já estava bem frustrado e de saco cheio, mas ainda mantinha a determinação de tentar apenas observar até que novamente escuto um senhor com os seus 60 e tantos anos chamar eles de petistas. Parei e perguntei (acreditem, de forma educada. Pasmem!!!!) se ele sabia que aquilo era uma crítica a chacina que havia acontecido em Osasco e o que ele achava disso.
“Foi muito bom que tenham feito isso. Tinha que matar mesmo.”.
Não dava mais, aí fodeu tudo e a paciência e tolerância foram para o saco. Um outro senhor, da mesma faixa etária, veio falar que essa chacina tinha sido de traficante matando traficante e eu disse que não, com certeza aquilo era trabalho de policiais.
Pronto, acabou a educação. Entre perguntas se eu sabia o que era um inquérito e que os jornais só mentiam, a coisa foi chegando ao ponto em que eu virei “um bosta” e logo depois eu já era a escória e sei lá mais o que. Nessa hora confesso que entrei na pilha dele e fiquei de saco cheio e comecei a discutir.
Errei? Talvez, mas não tenho sangue de barata e até que demorou para ele ferver. Era insano discutir com ele, argumentos desconexos, um ódio cego e sem sentido. Quando ele me xingou a primeira vez eu perguntei se eu o havia ofendido ou se ele me conhecia para afirmar esse tipo de coisa. Disse que eu era um petista e que eu estava ali fotografando de graça. Então eu disse que não, que eu estava fazendo fotos para uma agência de fotografia e ele me pergunta se eu não quero então fotografar de graça um aniversário ou casamento para ele.
Alguém entendeu?
Nessa hora eu já comecei a tirar sarro e dizer que ele devia ir jogar bingo ou sentar na praça para jogar milho para os pombos ao invés de ir lá ficar falando besteira, mas como não sou ruim, também disse para ele maneirar porque naquela idade ele já devia tomar cuidado com a pressão e não ficar tão exaltado (ok, fui irônico sim caso alguém não tenha notado).
Seria engraçado se não fosse trágico você ouvir um senhor de idade (mas lembrem-se, os canalhas também envelhecem) dizer:
— Esse é um protesto pacífico e respeitoso. Seu bosta!!!!!
Se isso é um protesto pacífico e respeitoso, gostaria de saber qual a visão dele de um protesto agressivo e desrespeitoso. Não, pensando bem não quero não.
A essa altura, outros amigos fotógrafos intervieram para tentar acalmar os ânimos e também começaram a ser agredidos verbalmente pelas pessoas que se amontoavam ali.
Os policiais próximos do tumulto fizeram o que passaram o dia todo fazendo: Ficaram de paisagem.
Os gritos cessaram e segundo alguns que estavam ali e afirmaram categoricamente, eu era um petista. Engraçado pensar que eu nem sabia que o era, até porque eu justifiquei meu voto nas últimas eleições (mas votaria na Dilma se tivesse votado).
Hoje senti na pele a tal da polarização que tanto se fala. Ou você é uma coisa ou você é outra e ponto final. Alguns amigos disseram que eu havia vacilado em entrar na pilha do velho (velho no sentido de retrógrado e anacrônico e também da idade), mas chega uma hora que não dá para ouvir tanta besteira e se calar.
Sempre pensei que o trabalho de um fotojornalista é o de mostrar a realidade e provocar mudanças, mas além de disso acho que o principal é não perder a capacidade de se indignar com as injustiças.
Posso ter errado do ponto de vista jornalístico, profissional, porém não me arrependo e faria tudo de novo se fosse necessário.
O Brasil está ferrado como está? Sim, sem dúvida alguma, mas se essas pessoas são a única solução, então infelizmente o país tem um triste futuro pela frente.
E quando eu estava indo embora, cutucaram meu ombro. Uma moça que estava ali e que eu nunca tinha visto. Ela estava ali para encontrar com o namorado e não me conhecia, mas quando me virei para ela, me deu um sorriso e disse:
— Parabéns pela coragem em enfrentar eles pelo que é certo.
Errei? Talvez tenha errado, mas quer saber? Foda-se, não tem preço a consciência tranquila por ter feito o que é certo.
Ou pelo menos o que acredito ser.


The day I was called ‘petista’
Everybody has limits, even the jornalists and photographers, and even though it is hard to reach it, today I did.
And crossed its line.
I will start this text with two apologies:
1st — I know that several times I have criticized the attitudes of some photographers that let themselves be carried away by the heat of the moment when they should only observe and register, but today I was the one who saw myself in that situation;
2nd — I will not use journalistic language in this text. Since I have already crossed the boundries once, I will seize the opportunity, so prepare yourselves, I will not hold my tongue.
Well, I knew today would be a bizarre episode, full of things that as friend of mine would say (nice regards to you my dear friend Americo), would make a monkey throw up.
Usually I adopt a political attitude to only register photographically the events without any interference, no questioning nor interfering beyond necessary for the job, but I think everybody has limits, besides I have already left behind a long time ago the illusion that impartial journalism exist. By the way, this was a nice discovery, because I could understand that I can take a side and still do a good jornalistic job.
(Photo)“The frying pan was made in France and the wooden spoon in Italy, but I bought them with my money. “ said the lady’s companion.
By the afternoon, a Free Journalist ‘s group member decided to perform where a Brazilian flag was extended and a person laid over it, all covered up of blood (ketchup by the way) while her mother mourned her death. After that, a post was hang with the saying ‘Red is missing in this flag’. This is for sure that anyone with a minimum of common sense would have noticed that it was referring to the slaughter happened at the weekend in Barueri and Osasco, but since the ‘blood ‘ was red, that was enough to decree that they were ‘petitas’. With no judgment, no chance of defending, just a jury/judge/ executor, or better saying, a bunch of dumb people that had no idea of what were saying.
(Photo )Performance done by journalists members criticizing the violence in the slums and the murders happened this weekend in Barueri and Osasco.
Of course I am not naive to think that this performance regardless it has a critic and ‘policized’ background, had some teasing, but so far it should not be a problem since everyone said it was a pacific and democratic protest (need urgently to review the concept of democratic) besides they did not mention “the ones that should not be named “ (just so there are no doubts, I am talking about Dilma, Lula, and PT)
During the performance, while the actress was laid down, two people of those good souls decided to join it in a way of their understanding of democracy: a lady in her 40s, very well dressed decided to paint the actress’s forehead with the paints she was carrying. Another guy, more euphoric, got a plastic cup, also full of paint, and threw at her.
The actress, as good dead, did not move, did not complain, just kept herself motionless, doing her job and showing them the reality that most people would rather ignore.
(Photo)Protesters paint and throw paint at the actress during the performance criticizing the violence against the black young people in the slums.
When the actress stood up at the end of the performance, she remained still, just starting and ignoring the screams that called her bandit, hooker, thief and other names.
As it was not enough, another protester decided to put a sticker on her forehead, trying poorly to draw attention or possibly what scares me most, of thinking that he was doing something good, something right.
(Photo)A protestor puts a sticker on the actress forehead during the act criticizing the violence in the slums
After that, I moved towards the gentleman who threw the paint on the actress and also the lady who painted her face and asked if I could record their statement about what happened and also about what they did.
The dude (this is how I will call him since he did not want to tell me his name ) said “no dude, better not “ and the lady said “I don’t want, I don’t authorize it.” Then I asked them why they had the courage to throw the paint, but did not have the same courage to speak and to be recorded, and the answer was the first drop out of my limit control.
The dude calls me quietly and whispers in my ears that he did not want to speak because he had already been part of political parts and this would be frown upon. Weird, isn’t? Throwing paint at someone isn’t frown upon, but giving an interview telling what they had done that is really frown upon.
The lady said she did it because it was a ‘petista’ teasing, then I said that the act did not have to do with PT and that was a critism of the murders that happened in the weekend.
Very politely (and arrogantly) she told me it was not the right place for it. If they wanted to protest they should go to Osasco instead of in Paulista. I felt pity (about the human being she is) and I asked if the violence in the slums should not be taken to the streets, but she said “no, slums issues should be solved in the slums” and after saying this phrase full of kindness, democracy and justice (it is good to remember that from on an on we could hear in the parades someone saying that they were not there because they carried about themselves, but because they want a better country for everyone) she ceased talking by saying “you don’t agree with me, and I don’t with you, so there’s no reason to talk.” I am not sure, but for me it sounded like ‘you are with me or against me.’
(Photo)Selfies and photos with the policemen of ‘tropa de choque’ that posed next to the blinders tank recently bought were common during the whole day.
I left the place and went to the corner where the actors had gone to keep on the intervention, nearby some policemen.
Once again they were followed by several people that kept with their demand screams (the names I told earlier, remember? ‘Petistas’, hooker, thief, miserable, and other names. Remember?) By this time I was frustrated and sick and tired of it, but still kept being determined to only observe until the moment I heard a gentleman who is his 60s calling them ‘petitas’. I stopped and asked (believe me, I was polite) if he knew it was critic to the slaughter that happened in Osasco and what he thought about it.
“It’s very good they did it. They had to kill indeed. “
That was it, then all my patience and tolerance were gone. Another man of the same age came to say that the slaughter was drug dealer killing drug dealer, and I said no, that was the police job for certain.
Done, the politeness was over. Between questions if I knew what was an enquiry and that the newspapers lied, it came to a point in which I was a “fool” and soon I was a trash and God knows what else. Then I confess that I was sick and tired of this and started to argue.
Was I wrong? Maybe, but I am not meek and mild and it took a while to get mad. It was insane arguing with him, disconnect arguments, a blind anger with no sense. When he scold me for the first time I asked if had ofended him or if he knew me to say that kind of thing. He said I was ‘petista’ and that I was photographing for free. I told him I was not, I was taking photos for an agency and then he asks me if want to photograph a birthday or a weeding for free.
Someone could understand it?
Then I started to joke and said he should play bingo or feed the pigeons instead of being there talking nonsense, but since I am not a bad person I also told him he should control himself especially in his age so he doesn’t suffer a heat attack (I was being ironic in case someone did not notice it.)
It would be funny if it was not tragic hearing an old man (but remember the mean people also get old) said:
This is a pacific and respectful protest. You bullshit!
If this is a respectful and pacific protest I would like to know in his point of view what is an agressive and disrespectful one. No, actually I don’t.
(Photo)Protester dressed up as ‘capitain america’ an another asking the American president, Barack Obama, for help.
By this moment some photographers coleagues came by to calm things down and also were scolded by the people around it.
The policemen nearby spend the day doing the same thing: just standing.
The screaming ceased, and according to some people who were there said I was ‘petista’. Funny thinking that I did not know what was it, even though I justified my vote in the last elections (but I would have voted in Dilma if had voted).
Today I felt the polarization so much talked about. You are either one thing or the other, and that is it. Some friends told me I made a mistake of arguing with the old guy. But sometimes it is hard to hear so many foolish things and hold our tongue.
I always thought that a photo jornalistic job is to show the reality and make changes, but besides it I think the main thing is not to loose the capacity of getting angry with the injustice.
I may have been wrong in the professional and journalistic point of view, but I don’t regret it, and would do everything again if needed.
Is Brazil so bad as it is? Yes, no doubts of that, but if those people are the only solution, then unfortunately the country has a sad future ahead.
And when I was leaving, I was poked on the shoulder by a lady who was there and who I have never seen before.She was there to meet with her boyfriend and she did not know me neither, but when I turned to her, she smiled and said:
- Congratulations for your courage facing them for what is right.
Did I made a mistake? Maybe I did, but you know what? I don’t care, there is no price for a peaceful mind for doing the right thing.
Or at least for what I believe it is.
I am a Brazilian photojournalist currently living in Santos, on the southern coast of São Paulo, Brazil.

Dear Periscope community and world,
We’d like to share an exciting update on Periscope’s growth, and provide some insight on how we measure our progress.
On August 2nd, we surpassed 10 million Periscope accounts. We launched Periscope just four months ago, on March 26, 2015. We would like to thank every single one of you for taking the time to use something that we’ve worked so hard to create. It means everything to us.
We’re even more stunned by the burgeoning usage of Periscope. Here’s the graph of our Time Watched since launching. We define Time Watched as the aggregate amount of time that people spend watching live broadcasts on iOS & Android. As of last week, we’re seeing over 40 years of video watched per day.
Time Watched is the metric we care about most, and what we’ll keep you updated on periodically. Here’s why Time Watched matters to us:
Optimizing for DAU/MAU doesn’t properly motivate our team to create a product that people love. Here’s why: if we were motivated to grow DAU, we’d be incentivized to invest in a host of conventional growth hacks, viral mechanics, and marketing to drive up downloads. This direction doesn’t necessarily lead to a better product, or lead to success for Periscopers. We hold ourselves accountable to Time Watched as an organizational measure because it reflects the kernel of our product, and our core values.
We hope this was helpful information to share. Most importantly, we want Periscopers to know and feel that they’re contributing to a growing ecosystem. And we want people to know that the Periscope team is measuring itself in a way that aligns with the value that the community gets from Periscope. We will continue to be transparent about what we think and why, and you should hold us to that. If there are other areas of our product or focus that we should be more transparent about, please tell us!
Thank you
Kayvon, Joe, and the Periscope team
Explore the world in real time through someone else's eyes
The core platform would not be too hard to agree on, as most people under 35 don’t disagree about things which to them are self-evident:
Gay marriage 👏 Climate change 🙀 Women’s bodies are, uh, their own 💃Military intervention for self-defense or protection only, no adventures 👊 Capitalism, duh, hugely pro 🙌 Believers/non-believers both welcome 😇
With these essentials and (any?) others agreed upon, we could spend our time debating — at least within the party — the things that are actually up for debate. It’s like my friend who told me the key to a successful marriage is to make sure you are aligned on kids, money, and sex. You’ll still fight, but you’ll spend your time fighting about “all the small things” because the big things are pre-agreed upon.
So why do this? Why establish a new party?
As of 2015, millennials (18–34) are now the largest group of human beings in the United States. 75. 3 million people. We just passed the boomers in size. And yet nearly all of our elected officials are boomers and none of them are millennials. It’s not surprising then that many millennials refer to the government as not truly representing them, or that we don’t “feel connected” to either of the current two parties. But if millennials are now the largest group of people in the country, and we are now all adults of voting age, isn’t it our job to represent ourselves?
Millennials can viably win seats in Congress now. So why not start by winning a couple seats now? If we are so good at the internet, shouldn’t we get started by using it to secure some of our own representation? And wouldn’t an amazing third party change everything about American politics if it could be a true swing vote? If the Tea Party can become influential, can’t we?
Here is one idea of how to get started:
We raise money for our candidates via crowdfunding. We mostly use YouTube and not TV, and as such we avoid a huge waste of campaign funds. We leverage social channels really well to get the message out, and go around the typical broadcast news infrastructure that invites so much money into politics. We will still need money, of course.
In races where we don’t run, which will of course be the vast majority to start, we make a recommendation to our party on who to vote for. We become influential in every election in the country. We are independent, and we recommend candidates on both sides. We welcome people of all ages to the party. Many people 35 years and above already identify with our values. They hunger for an alternative, and will be intrigued by our view of who to vote for. Our activism will give agency to our entire generation to vote, and if not satisfied by who to vote for, to run.
We are nation of entrepreneurs. If we are disappointed in the current offerings, isn’t it our job to create something that we are excited by? What was that quote about being the change you want to see in the world?
Our spirit animal could be a fox. 🐺
It’s easy to be cynical about American politics. It’s more important not to be. If we are not doing something about it, what is the purpose of our complaining?
If you think the Millennial Party is possibly a good idea, press recommend and hit retweet.
We’ll take your clicks as a vote that we should exist.
#millennialparty
I am @dunn. I love cilantro but understand the people that hate it. Founder and CEO @Bonobos Inc. www.bonobos.com and Founder @redswanventures www.redswan.vc.
Stationed on the West Coast of the United States, flanked by the blue hues of the Pacific Ocean, is a city that’s home to some of the greatest companies in the world. 700 miles south of that is San Francisco.
I moved to San Francisco two years ago to work for a startup called Padlet. I love it here. It’s like being in Hollywood, but with less-good-looking people. You have the celebs, you have the scandals, you have the media frenzy. My friends back home are full of questions:
“Is it fun?”
“You think I should look for a job there?”
“How far is Vegas?”
So, here is my experience. I hope it brings the readers closer to our little valley where we are building the future*.
My day begins with a 30 minute commute to work. I take the subway. The subway system in SF is called the BART, short for Bay Area Rapid* Transit. I love the BART because it is always full of surprises. E.g. yesterday, I was at the train station and bam! the train came on time.
Many drive to work. Driving in SF is like a theme park ride — the cars move bumper to bumper, the terrain is alpine, and the people around you have the temper of 10-year-olds.
Here is a pop-quiz — Which one’s an SF road and which one’s a roller-coaster?
Those with a death wish cycle to work. It is easy to spot a cyclist. If you see a guy with one side of his jeans rolled up to the shin, he is a moron; if you see a guy on a bicycle, he is a cyclist.
My office is in a neighbourhood called SoMa, short for South of Market. Many startup offices are in SoMa. The name is a tribute to the returns that investors in most of these startups will see in the long run.
SoMa is a vibrant area with a variety of establishments like Starbucks, local coffeeshops, grab-and-go coffee kiosks, and coffee trucks. It’s a shame I don’t drink coffee. It’s not that I don’t like the beverage. I just prefer not to consume anything at temperatures that would liquify my alimentary canal.
Why is coffee in SF so hot? Are people welding metal with it? The one time I asked a barista (phrased more politely, of course), I was reproached,
“Good coffee needs to be brewed at 200°F for full flavor.”
Odd! Good bread needs to be baked at 400°F but I don’t see any bakeries selling me searing dough bricks.
My company shares its office with two other companies — Buildzoom and Flexport. Judging from their names, Buildzoom manufactures high precision microscopes and Flexport ships fluorine to dentists in China. We all have a common investor named YC. YC is the venture capital arm of the YMCA. They invest in a lot of companies every year, many that seem outrageous on paper. E.g. they invested in a company called Swapbox, which, I believe, is cloud storage for swingers.
Now, you must be thinking — “Isn’t it stupid to judge a company by its name?” No. It’s not. Most companies in the Bay Area have obvious names:
Our office, like most modern startup offices, has an open floor plan. In an open floor plan, desks are organised like tables in a college cafeteria. However, instead of food and noise, you have computers, food, and noise.
The noise mandates that you wear headphones while working. Be careful, though. Your choice of headphones reveals a lot about your character:
An assorted collection of desks and chairs adorns our office. People reflected on their lack of fitness and concluded that the blame lay squarely on their choice of furniture. So some people have standing desks — desks so high that you have to stand to use them (or as short folks like myself like to call them, any other desks).
Markets are chockablock with these desk+gym hybrids — standing desks, treadmill desks, cycling desks. This is why I feel bullish about my swimming desk idea — a big water tank with an infinity pool and a computer bolted on one side. Noise cancelling scuba masks, snorkels, and fins come as standard equipment.
My favourite mutant furniture, however, is the “balancing ball chair”. This chair has an exercise ball in place of a seat cushion. Let me repeat that: in place of a seat cushion, this chair has, a giant ball. It’s a great way to lose weight*.

Outside of Chobani, you’d be hard pressed to find a place that talks more about culture than Silicon Valley. We want to create an environment where employees are happy, motivated, healthy, and productive.
Since people are happiest in the company of friends and family, we make sure you have work-life balance. This means you can work-from-home; on weekends. Notable exception is Yahoo. They let you home-from-work by allowing you to bring your infant to the office.
Of course, we realize that not everyone has friends. So we let you bring your dog to work. Our office has a dog too. His name is Moses. He’s sensitive to sunlight.
Unlimited vacation policy is another perk at most good companies. Travelling, after all, is an important part of the human experience. All we ask is that you don’t leave at a time when your presence is sacrosanct for the company. It can be hard to judge that at times so here is a handy table to help you decide when you can go on a vacation:
Most startups provide lunch. Given the wide array of dietary preferences people have in SF, it’s a tricky proposition. It is fairly common to have someone who is a vegetarian, a vegan, on gluten-free, on paleo, and on juice detox in an office of 3 people. Allow me to explain these diets:
Of course, we can’t talk about working in SF without actually talking about how we work.
First rule of working in Silicon Valley — keep your emails short. If the recipient finds them rude, he/she needs a lesson in productivity*. Here is a good email:
Ignore the novella length signature; the brevity rule doesn’t apply to it. Put anything there — legalese, a call to save trees, a motivational quote. Not many people know that Twitter started out as an email service for Silicon Valley professionals but didn’t catch on because it allowed way too many characters.
We don’t have meetings; meetings are to startups what kryptonite is to Spiderman — out of place. So we have all-hands*, one-on-ones, stand-ups, and huddles. Same goes for calls — we don’t make phonecalls. We sync-up, touch-base, or simply, connect. Make sure you set up the right one, or you may give people the impression that you are wasting their vocabulary.
The most sacred psalm of the startup-bible, though, is —
This is why our first hire was a lousy mountain climber.
One last thing — the startup life does not stop at work; it affects your personal life too. E.g., if you work at a startup in San Francisco, you are like the guy selling plastic souvenirs at the Eiffel tower. Everyone at the Eiffel tower is selling plastic souvenirs. So you find yourself having the same conversations with similar people. Here is an example:
Alex: I have a startup. We are Yelp for contractors.Ben: I have a startup too. We are contractors for Yelp.[Pause]Together: Business model … yada yada yada Paul Graham … Series A … lorem ipsum Google sucks.
This, in itself, is not a problem; I enjoy these conversations. The problem is that they often render you incapable of any other forms of communication. E.g.:
Girlfriend’s dad: Great weather today.Ben: Yeah. It’s beautiful.[Pause][Longer pause]Ben: So I see you use an iPhone. Android sucks, huh?
Famous investor Marc Andreessen says:
That explains why software is so shitty. Many things in the world — like Kanye, curling, and kale — are hard to digest.
Still, technology is changing the way we live, the way we love, the way we work. And a lot of that technology is being built here in San Francisco.
If this sounds exciting, come on board; Padlet is hiring, and so are a bazillion other startups. If you don’t live here and can’t relocate, don’t worry; many startups hire remotely. (Reddit isn’t anymore, FYI.)
If you are already a part of this world, why did you just waste 8 minutes? Why aren’t you working? Stop procrastinating and go ship stuff!
Founder, Padlet.
Words etc from the wonderful people at Padlet.

It has been nearly a decade since I last worked for you. I was your production assistant. I picked up your lunch. I ran your errands. I even once spilled black coffee on your white rug. In my time with you I rode rollercoasters, wore a Baby Bjorn mounted hidden camera, discovered paparazzi, laughed my ass off, was brought to tears hearing Annie Lennox warm up, and toured a post Katrina New Orleans. In the years that I worked at The Ellen DeGeneres Show I discovered Los Angeles, met my partner of a decade, and came out of the closet to my parents. The impact this time in my life had on who I am need not be underestimated. Through you, I learned the importance of being my most authentic self. I learned if I lived my truth, society will find a way to embrace me. All of me.
My life has changed immensely since I left my job at The Ellen DeGeneres Show. You see, I had a life changing day a little over 3 years ago. A line in the sand, if you will. A moment. I woke up. Fell out of bed. And into the hospital. When I got out, I needed a cane and some eyeglasses to navigate my newly disabled world.
I do not wish chronic illness on my worst frienemy. My illness and my disability left me scarred and traumatized. It wasn’t a graceful process. But amazingly enough, it is probably best thing that’s ever happened to me. Along with my Idiopathic Neuropathy diagnosis came the gift of advocacy. I now have a point of view. A change I wish to see in the world. A deep and insatiable desire to create inclusion in the highly exclusive world of fashion. I call my idea ‘Inclusive Retail’. I live, eat and breathe Inclusive Retail every moment of every day (seriously, just ask my Facebook friends). I do not believe inclusion for ‘other’ bodies will be achieved until ‘other’ bodies are seen as consumers. Who are marketed to. And designed for. Over the weekend, ol’ bossy pants suddenly popped up in my new world. And it’s a bit startling. I’m not so sure how to proceed.
So I’m going to do what I have learned to do with my doctors, and I’m just going to be honest about the discomfort of it. People have recently started asking if I have reached out, asking you to sell an inclusive product in your new ED by Ellen line. And I have said that I had not. Reaching out would force me to look back at a life I no longer recognize as my own. Plus, after a long and ultimately unsuccessful two year pursuit of J. Crew, I didn’t want to be let down yet again. But upon discovering your new model Kayla, a 9 year old with Down syndrome, I can’t help but think… what if?
Do you know how difficult it is for children and adults with Down syndrome to find garments that fit? Would you let me introduce you to two companies; Downs Design Dreams and Runway of Dreams? Would you consider collaborating with them, ultimately creating a beautiful ED by Ellen product for Kayla and her peers? Did you know you could be the first? You could be the first mainstream fashion brand to make a product for someone with a disability. You could be that person.

Downs Design Dreams and Runway of Dreams could help you make a garment for someone with Down syndrome. They are filling the gap created by Gap and other global retailers. Right now, these bodies have no options. The bodies your ED by Ellen line sees as beautiful. The bodies that your ED by Ellen line aims to empower. Features of pants for a Down syndrome body include high back rises, a tapered knee for short femurs, extra room in thighs and bottom, and the most important… sensory & motor skill friendly features (no buttons, zipper or tags, soft stretchy material and a full elastic waistband). Imagine how cute a pair of ED by Ellen joggers for children with Down syndrome could be.
Karen Bowersox, the founder of Downs Designs Dreams created a special feature for her jeans, something so thoughtful that I’d prefer to let her explain:
The way I see it, if you make one product, your influence might urge the next company to make another product. And through this new trend, instead of all the products being made by one brand, every brand could carry one or a few products. Think of the possibilities. Imagine some Levis Wheelchair Jeans. And a cane at J. Crew. And a Beats by Dre hearing aid. And a wheelchair by BMW (I mean, Jeep makes a stroller). The list goes on and on. And the entire trend could be traced back to you and that one product. That you made for your adorable 9 year old model Kayla.
Mindy Scheier of Runway of Dreams thinks it’s great that you’re featuring a model with a disability. But she won’t find it relevant until the insides match the outsides. Runway of Dreams is a non-profit organization that works with mainstream brands and retailers to create adaptable clothing. Imagine a Runway of Dreams for ED by Ellen line where the clothing fits and the child can dress his or herself.
Inclusive Retail feels so obvious to me. Why aren’t products for ‘other’ bodies a natural order of the world? Why would society exclude people who just want to be included? I mean, wasn’t it you that said “I’m a person with compassion. I care passionately about equal rights. I care about human rights”? Please help me right this wrong.
So Ellen, if it is you, if you are the person who will help me bring Inclusive Retail to life, I pre-wrote a Tweet for you. “Dear @elizejackson, Yes. I am that person. #InclusiveRetail”
Thanks and Best,
Liz Jackson, The Girl with the Purple Cane

If you’re not Ellen but you read this letter and agree, will you please click on the little heart button below. Also, will you consider sharing on Facebook and Twitter? I need your help. We ‘others’ need your help. Thank you.
I write about the intersection of disability and style. I love beautiful products.
Share your story. Express yourself. All submissions welcome. thegirlwiththepurplecane [at] gmail

One of the themes we’re exploring at the Next:Economy summit is the way that networks trump traditional forms of corporate organization, and how they are changing traditional ways of managing that organization. Uber and Airbnb are textbook examples of this trend. Uber has ambitious plans to manage hundreds of thousands — eventually even millions — of independent drivers with a small core of employees building a technology platform that manages those workers. Airbnb is on track to have more rooms on offer than large hotel chains, with under a thousand employees.
Esko Kilpi beautifully described the power of networks in an essay on Medium, “The Future of Firms,” reflecting on economist Ronald Coase’s theory of 20th century business organization. He wrote:
Of course, networks have always been a part of business. An automaker is not made up of just its industrial workers and its managers, but also of its network of parts suppliers and auto dealerships and ad agencies. Even its shareholders are a network that supports its capital needs. Similarly, large retailers are aggregation points for a network of suppliers, logistics companies, and other suppliers. Fast food vendors like McDonalds and Subway aggregate a network of franchisees. The entire film and TV industry consists of a small core of full time workers and a large network of temporary on-demand workers. This is also true of publishing and other media companies. My own company, O’Reilly Media, publishes books, puts on events, and delivers online learning with a full-time staff of five hundred and an extended family of tens of thousands of contributors — authors, conference presenters, technology advisers, and other partners.
But the Internet takes the networked firm to a new level. Google, the company that ended up as the prime gateway to the World Wide Web, provides access to a universe of content that it doesn’t own yet has become the largest media company in the world. 13–24 years olds already watch more video on YouTube, much of it user-contributed, than they watch on television. And Amazon just surpassed WalMart as the world’s most valuable retailer by offering virtually unlimited selection, including marketplace items from ordinary individuals and small businesses.
On-demand companies like Uber and Airbnb are only the latest development in an ongoing transformation of business by the Internet. In addition to discussing these latest entrants, we’ll take a look at what we learn from the evolution of Internet e-commerce and content marketplaces. Then we’ll try to tease out some best practices of Internet-era platforms and marketplaces.
Consider the evolution of the retail marketplace as exemplified first by chain stores, and then by Internet retailers like Amazon, which have largely replaced a network of small local businesses that delivered goods through retail storefronts. Cost efficiencies led to lower prices and greater selection, drawing more consumers, which in turn gave more purchasing power to larger retailers, allowing them to lower prices further and to crush rivals in a self-reinforcing cycle. National marketing of these advantages led to the rise of familiar chains.
But the Internet added even more leverage, reducing the need to invest in real estate, reaching customers who were not physically close to prime locations, and building in new habits of customer loyalty and instant gratification. With delivery now same day in many locations, anything you need is only a few clicks away.
Internet retailers like Amazon were also able to offer even larger selections of products, aggregating offerings not just from a carefully chosen network of suppliers, but opening up self-service marketplaces in which anyone can offer products. Years ago, Clay Shirky described the move from “filter, then publish” to “publish, then filter” as one of the key advantages brought by the Internet to publishing, but the lesson applies to virtually every Internet marketplace. It is fundamentally an open-ended network in which filtering and curation (otherwise known as “management”) happens largely after the fact.
But that’s not all. While large physical retailers cut costs by eliminating knowledgeable workers, using lower prices and greater selection to hedge against worse customer service (compare an old time hardware store with a chain like Home Depot or Lowe’s), online retailers did not make these same tradeoffs. Instead of eliminating knowledgeable workers, they replaced them with software.
Even though there are several orders of magnitude more products than in physical stores, you don’t need a salesperson to help you find the right product on Amazon — a search engine helps you find it. You don’t need a salesperson to help you understand which product is the best — Amazon has built software that lets customers rate the products and write reviews to tell you which are best, and then feeds that reputation information into their search engine so that the best products naturally come out on top. You don’t need a cashier to help you check out — software lets you do that yourself.


Request an invitation to the Next:Economy Summit to learn more about the evolution of 21st century business.

One way to think about the new generation of on-demand companies, such as Uber, Lyft, and Airbnb, is that they are networked platforms for physical world services, which are bringing fragmented industries into the 21st century in the same way that ecommerce has transformed retail.
Let’s start by taking a closer look at the industry in which Uber and Lyft operate.
The coordination costs of the taxicab business have generally kept it local. According to the Taxicab, Limousine and ParaTransit Association, the US taxi industry consists of approximately 6,300 companies operating 171,000 taxicabs and other vehicles. More than 80% of these are small companies operating anywhere between one and 50 taxis. Only 6% of these companies have more than 100 taxicabs. Only in the largest of these companies do multiple drivers use the same taxicab, with regular shifts. 85% of taxi and limousine drivers are independent contractors. In many cases, the taxi driver pays a rental fee (typically $120/$130 per day) to the owner of the cab (who in turn pays a dispatch and branding fee to the branded dispatch service) and keeps what he or she makes after paying that daily cost. The total number of cabs is limited by government-granted licenses, sometimes called medallions.
When you as a customer see a branded taxicab, you are seeing the brand not of the medallion owner (who may be a small business of as little as a single cab) but of the dispatch company. Depending on the size of the city, that brand may be sublicensed to dozens or even hundreds of smaller companies. This fragmented industry provides work not just for drivers but for managers, dispatchers, maintenance workers, and bookkeepers. The TLPA estimates that the industry employs a total of 350,000 people, which works out to approximately two jobs per taxicab. Since relatively few taxicabs are “double shifted” (these are often in the largest, densest locations, where it makes sense for the companies to own the cab and hire the driver as a full time employee), that suggests that half of those employed in the industry are in secondary support roles. These are the jobs that are being replaced by the efficient new platforms. Functions like auto maintenance still have to be performed, so those jobs remain. Jobs that are lost to automation are equivalent to the kinds of losses that came to bank tellers and their managers with the introduction of the ATM.
Technology is leading to a fundamental restructuring of the taxi and limousine industry from one of a network of small firms to a network of individuals, replacing many middlemen in the taxi business with software, using the freed up resources to put more drivers on the road.
Uber and Lyft use algorithms, GPS, and smartphone apps to coordinate driver and passenger. The extraordinary soon becomes commonplace, so we forget how our first ride was a magical user experience. That magic can lead us to overlook the fact that, at bottom, Uber and Lyft provide dispatch and branding services much like existing taxi companies, only more efficiently. And like the existing taxi industry, they essentially subcontract the job of transport — except in this case, they subcontract to individuals rather than to smaller businesses, and take a percentage of the revenue rather than charging a daily rental fee for the use of a branded taxicab.
These firms use technology to eliminate the jobs of what used to be an enormous hierarchy of managers (or a hierarchy of individual firms acting as suppliers), replacing them with a relatively flat network managed by algorithms, network-based reputation systems, and marketplace dynamics. These firms also rely on their network of customers to police the quality of their service. Lyft even uses its network of top-rated drivers to onboard new drivers, outsourcing what once was a crucial function of management.
It’s useful to call out some specific features of the new model.

In my initial post, The WTF Economy, I wrote:
It would have lacked the immediate punch, but I could also have written:
The reason: Subway owns no restaurants, while McDonalds owns 20% of its restaurants, with the remaining 80% franchised. (Employment across both owned and franchised restaurants at McDonalds is over 1.9 million.)
In many ways, Uber and Airbnb represent a 21st century update of the franchising model. In franchising, the parent company brands and markets the product, sets standards for producing it, and charges a licensing fee and receives a percentage of revenue from each of its franchisees.
The difference is that technology radically lowers the barriers to being a franchisee. In many ways, you can call the modern trend “the franchise of one.” The smallest unit of franchising in the past was a small business, with all the overhead that implies: real estate, equipment, uniforms, employees (including managers), and so on. Today, the franchise can be a single individual, and that individual can work only part time, so it’s really “the franchise of one or even less!”
Branding and advertising are much less necessary because the app itself becomes a customer habit that delivers business. There are little or no capital requirements, workers can schedule their own time, and turn their own under-utilized personal assets (a car, a house, or other equipment) into business assets. In her book Peers Inc, Robin Chase refers to this as “excess capacity.”
This is exactly the dynamic that Kilpi references when he describes how the radically lower transaction costs of networks give them advantage over traditional firms.
Though the details of the taxi industry differ from the hotel industry, the same dynamic applies to another great success story of the On-demand economy, Airbnb. Like Uber and Lyft, Airbnb uses technology to make excess capacity available in locations that were otherwise extremely poorly served. Even in great cities, hotels are available only in some neighborhoods, and completely unavailable in others. By contrast, Airbnbs can be found anywhere that there is demand.
A small personal anecdote: I recently got married in Fort Tryon Park in New York City, near the Cloisters. The nearest hotel is 1.5 miles away, and the closest “nice” hotel 3.8 miles, yet my fiance and I were able to walk to our wedding site from a beautiful, comfortable Airbnb facing the park and just 5 minutes away. Many of our guests stayed locally as well.
As with Uber and Lyft, we see that the granular nature of supply (the franchise of one, or even less than one) makes it easy for more natural market mechanisms to come into play. People can offer a resource that they already own, testing the market to see if there is demand and at what price. If they are satisfied with the transaction, they can continue to offer that resource. More supply will come on stream to match demand in highly desirable locations.
There are some interesting lessons, though, about the evolution of the supply network. While Airbnb began as a network of properties offered solely by individuals, already 40% of Airbnb properties are now offered by hosts who own more than one property. There are also anecdotal reports that small companies owning multiple cars are starting to be part of the Uber network.
The evolution of Airbnb’s network echoes the evolution of the World Wide Web and the media platform businesses that grew up on it, such as Yahoo, Google, YouTube, and Facebook.
The World Wide Web began as a peer-to-peer network of individuals who were both providing and consuming content. Yet twenty five years on, the World Wide Web is dominated by the media presence of large companies, though there is still plenty of room for individuals, mid-sized companies, and aggregators of smaller companies and individuals. While the platform itself began in decentralized fashion, its growth in complexity led to increasing centralization of power. Everyone started out with an equal chance at visibility, but over time, mechanisms were invented to navigate the complexity: first directories, then search engines.
Eventually, there grew up a rich ecosystem of intermediaries, including, at the top of the food chain, first Yahoo! then Google and their various competitors, but also content aggregators of various sizes and types, such as the Huffington Post and Buzzfeed, as well as various companies, from Search Engine Optimizers to advertising firms like DoubleClick and Aquantive and content delivery firms like Akamai and Fastly, who help other firms optimize their performance in the marketplace.
Later media networks such as YouTube, Facebook, and the Apple App Store bypassed this evolution and began as centralized portals, but even there, you see some of the same elements. In each case, the marketplace was at first supplied by small individual contributors, but eventually, larger players — companies, brands, and superstars — come to dominate.
In addition, the central player begins by feeding its network of suppliers, but eventually begins to compete with it. In its early years, Google provided no content of its own, simply sending customers off to the best independent websites. But over time, more and more types of content are offered directly by Google. Amazon began simply as a marketplace for publishers; eventually, they became a publisher. Over time, as networks reach monopoly or near-monopoly status, they must wrestle with the issue of how to create more value than they capture — how much value to take out of the ecosystem, versus how much they must leave for other players in order for the marketplace to continue to thrive.
I believe we will see some of these same dynamics play out in the new networked platforms for physical world services, such as Uber, Lyft, and Airbnb. Successful individuals build small companies, and some of the small companies turn into big ones. Eventually, existing companies join the platform. By this logic, I expect to see large hotel chains offering rooms on Airbnb, and existing taxi companies affiliating with Uber and Lyft. To optimize their success, these platforms will need to make it possible for many kinds of participants in the marketplace to succeed.

Here are some key lessons for companies wanting to emulate the success of Internet marketplaces like Amazon, Google, Uber, and Airbnb:
Join the discussion. What do you think are the best practices of networked businesses? What principles will drive the success of these businesses in the future? What should they watch out for?
Founder and CEO, O'Reilly Media. Watching the alpha geeks, sharing their stories, helping the future unfold.
How work, business and society face massive, technology-driven change. Curated by Tim O’Reilly, Steven Levy and Lauren Smiley, in conjunction with the Next: Economy Summit coming to San Francisco in November.
A tale of differing visions
So this is it. Here we are. The community is divided and Bitcoin is forking: both the software and, perhaps, the block chain too. The two sides of the split are Bitcoin Core and a slight variant of the same program, called Bitcoin XT. As of August 15th, there is now a full release available.
Such a fork has never happened before. I want to explain things from the perspective of the Bitcoin XT developers: let it not be said there was insufficient communication.
Bitcoin forking is a topic that may interest many people, so this article is meant for a general audience. It doesn’t assume previous knowledge of the debate.
The founding vision for Bitcoin was carefully laid out by Satoshi, and has always been crystal clear. This dispute is about growth. In 2008 he responded to the first question ever asked about Bitcoin’s design with a simple statement:
He was in many ways more blasé about scaling Bitcoin up than any of us have ever been. He planned for Bitcoin to become popular right from the start, and knew that success would change how people used his system. In 2010 he said this:
In 2011 I fleshed out Satoshi’s scaling intuitions with a series of calculations: what if Bitcoin became so popular it replaced VISA completely? The answer was that his plan is credible — you’d never need more than a single computer, even with such a large amount of traffic. I also implemented the mode he talked about, as he left before finishing the work.
Satoshi’s plan brought us all together. It changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of us across the globe. Some of us quit our jobs, others devoted their spare time to the project, still others founded companies and even moved across the world. It’s the idea of ordinary people paying each other via a block chain that created and united this global community.
That’s the vision I signed up for. That’s the vision Gavin Andresen signed up for. That’s the vision so many developers and startup founders and evangelists and users around the world signed up for.
That vision is now in jeopardy. In recent months it’s become clear that a small group of people have a radically different plan for Bitcoin. These people have never really been comfortable with Satoshi’s intentions because they fear success — what if technology never improved, what if people couldn’t run Bitcoin on their home computers any more? Would that not somehow make Bitcoin less peer-to-peer, and more like banking? What if people start to rely on Bitcoin even though it’s imperfect?
So now Satoshi is gone they want to make drastic changes — networks of payment routing hubs, sharp rises in fees, ending support for mobile P2P wallets, giving up on unconfirmed transactions, and many other things that never appeared in any of our project’s founding documents.
The so-called “Lightning network” that is being pushed as an alternative to Satoshi’s design does not exist. The paper describing it was only published earlier this year. If implemented, it would represent a vast departure from the Bitcoin we all know and love. To pick just one difference amongst many, Bitcoin addresses wouldn’t work. What they’d be replaced with has not been worked out (because nobody knows). There are many other surprising gotchas, which I published an article about. It’s deeply unclear that whatever is finally produced would be better than the Bitcoin we have now.
In theory, none of this should be a problem. The Lightning Network builds on top of the block chain but needs only fairly trivial upgrades to it for best functioning. So people who would like to explore this direction are free to do so. If what they built worked better than plain vanilla Bitcoin then the market should prefer payments being made that way, and if so … fair play to them! Bitcoin’s current design is unlikely to be the last word in making payments. It’s reasonable to think that one day it will be outcompeted or augmented by something else.
But the system we have today works. It has an ecosystem, it has developers. It has exchanges and wallets and people buying and selling and ATMs and books and apps and conferences and a large base of people who have learned how it works.
Would people decide to migrate to a radically different system, if given a free choice?
We don’t know, and the people pushing for these things don’t want to let the market decide. This is what’s gone wrong.
A long time ago, Satoshi put in place a temporary kludge: he limited the size of each block to one megabyte. He did this in order to keep the block chain small in the early days, until what we now call SPV wallets were built (‘client only mode’). As seen in the quote above, it was never meant to be permanent and he talked about phasing it out when the time came. In the end it wasn’t needed — I wrote the first SPV implementation in 2011 and with my esteemed colleague Andreas Schildbach, together we built the first and still most popular Android wallet. Since then SPV wallets have been made for every platform. So Satoshi’s reason for the temporary limit has been resolved a long time ago.
As Bitcoin has grown, so have the blocks. Reasonable traffic projections indicate that as Bitcoin spreads via word of mouth, we will reach the limit of the current system some time next year, or by 2017 at the absolute latest. And another bubble or press cycle could push us over the limit before even that. The result might not be pretty.
So it is now time to raise the limit, or remove it entirely. That was always the plan. This is where the problem starts: those who don’t want to see Bitcoin scale up as Satoshi intended have decided to stall the process of doing so. They see a golden, one-time opportunity to forcibly divert Bitcoin from its intended path and onto a wildly different technical trajectory. They don’t know exactly what the alternative design will be, and certainly haven’t built it — but that doesn’t matter. They think that by blocking the blockchain’s growth they can “incentivise” (i.e. force) the Bitcoin community to switch to something different, something more in line with their personal technical tastes.
So far I have not elaborated much on these people’s arguments, or who they are. I thought long and hard about naming names in this article, but in the end it seemed unproductive. Those who care enough to follow this drama already know, and those who don’t wouldn’t recognise the people involved anyway.
Suffice it to say they are a handful of people who either have commit access to the Bitcoin Core source repository, work for people who do, people who have been persuaded by their arguments, and a few others who arrived at similar conclusions on their own.
So let us instead discuss those arguments. There have been many. As each one came up, Gavin and myself have written articles analysing them and rebutting them. Sometimes the answers were common sense, other times they were deeper and required more work, like doing network simulations.
The best repository to learn about these arguments is Gavin’s blog. I wish I could link you to a similar collection of rebuttal’s to Gavin’s writings, but there isn’t one.
To summarise a long and exhausting debate, the objections fall into a few different groups:
There are others: if your favourite objection isn’t listed above, go read Gavin’s blog to find it.
The first point might be true one day — it’s tough to compare Bitcoin to theoretical systems which exist only on paper. But nobody who looked at any alternative designs on the table think they they could be implemented within the 12 months we probably have before the Bitcoin network runs out of capacity (example, see last paragraph, another example) ….. even assuming they were better. It is an example of the Nirvana Fallacy:
The second objection is too vague to answer; there are credible reasons to believe that a full upgrade of every Bitcoin node might take a year, and actually running out of capacity would cause serious disruption. We should really have started before now. There are two people on the bitcoin-development mailing list with professional capacity planning experience and both think the process must start right now. Demanding it be delayed until some unspecified future date is not sound engineering.
The final point is the most troublesome and heated by far. It is based in two assumptions:
It would be great if Bitcoin was so compelling that demand for it was infinite: I could just stop improving my software and wait for the rising price to make me rich. Back here in reality Bitcoin exists in a competitive marketplace. Growth is not a god-given right. Every user we win takes effort, every person persuaded takes time. Bitcoin is currently growing, but only at a gentle pace. I wish I could confidently say the cost of running a full Bitcoin node will go up in future: that would imply our success is outstripping the combined efforts of the entire hardware industry. That industry is astonishing: in 2007 the iPhone launched to the world, it cost $500. Just 7 years later the Forme P9 smartphone launched for $30. It matches every feature the iPhone had and then goes significantly beyond.
With the second assumption, we reach the hard core of this debate: Should Bitcoin grow, even if the network changes its structure as a result?
The founder of the project gave a clear answer to this question — YES
We have been working on this plan ever since. To try and change that answer to “no” not only violates the Bitcoin social contract, but goes against the wishes of many, many people in the Bitcoin community.
Those who really believe that an über-niche currency is better should create an alt coin with a limited size block chain as part of the founding vision. Not try and convert Bitcoin into one by exploiting the casual nature of an old, quick kludge.
Why can this dispute not be resolved in some more civilised manner than an outright split?
Put simply, the decision making process in Bitcoin Core has broken.
In theory, like almost all open source projects, Core has a “maintainer”. The job of a maintainer is to shepherd the project and make decisions about what goes in and what doesn’t. The maintainer is the boss. A good maintainer gathers feedback, weighs arguments and then makes decisions. But in the case of Bitcoin Core the block size debate has been allowed to drag on for years.
The problem is that any change, no matter how obvious, can be nixed entirely if it becomes “controversial”, meaning another person with commit access objects. As there are five committers and many other non-committers who can also make changes “controversial” this is a recipe for deadlock. The fact that the block size was never meant to be permanent has ceased to matter: the fact that removing it is debated, is, by itself, enough to ensure it will not happen. Like a committee with no chairman, the meeting never ends. To quote the committer who has pushed hardest for stasis, “Bitcoin needs a leader like a fish needs a bicycle”.
Compounding this problem is an absolute disinterest in listening to the wider community.
Raising the block size is supported by, amongst others:
This list is far from complete. Many other key players in the ecosystem haven’t commented publicly, but have expressed support to Gavin and myself in private.
So you can see that this isn’t some strange campaign of conquest by Gavin and myself. If we weren’t preparing for this change, others would.
How did those pushing for 1mb blocks respond to all these people?
They didn’t, because they never asked for their views at all. To quote one influential member of the Bitcoin Core community:
Companies represent many of Bitcoin’s most passionate, devoted and technical people. They provide critical infrastructure. Yet the views of the people who build them are considered “misleading to the sense of consensus”.
What about wallet developers? They are the people most exposed to the needs of day to day users.
Never asked. When they spoke up anyway, it made no difference; their views are considered irrelevant.
That isn’t surprising: this group measures the relevance of someone’s opinions by how many commits to Core they have. It’s become clearer and clearer that the “consensus” that’s so often talked about in the Bitcoin Core community really means the views of a tiny handful of people, regardless of what anyone else in the wider community might think, how much work they have done, or how many users their products have.
Put another way, “developer consensus” is marketing, wool pulled over the eyes of Bitcoin users to blind them from the truth: just two or three people acting in concert can break Bitcoin in whatever way they see fit.
Do they even recognise that a large number of critical people disagree? No. Quoting one of the committers again:
This can only be true if you classify vast numbers of the engineers building the Bitcoin ecosystem as “non technical”.
Clearly, there is a serious problem here. Communication has broken down, both sides feel they are vigorously defending decentralisation and the One True Bitcoin Vision. The community is divided.
This leaves one last mechanism for resolving the dispute. We can make a modified version of the software, and put it to a vote of miners via the usual chain fork logic used for upgrades. If a majority upgrade to the new version and produce a larger than 1mb block, the minority would reject it and be put onto a parallel block chain. To get back in sync with the rest of the network they would then have to adopt the fork, clearly resolving the system in favour. If the majority never upgrade, the fork would never happen and the 1mb limit would be hit.
It would seem like all participants should support such a move: clearly, consensus cannot be reached via the usual mechanisms and thus putting it to something resembling a vote should look like a good way to make progress.
Here we come to the last and most fatal source of disagreement.
Of the 5 Bitcoin Core committers, Gavin and Jeff support a fork but the other three appear to believe that any controversial hard fork is unthinkable, madness, reckless, should never ever happen and doing it would seriously harm Bitcoin, perhaps even fatally. If any of them are in favour of resolving via a fork, I haven’t seen them express that anywhere.
We strongly disagree with this assessment. We don’t think the sky will fall if the chain forks. We think people on the small-blocks side of the chain will upgrade and continue on the bigger-blocks side. There will be plenty of time for them to know about the change and prepare. But of course, this has made no difference to the belief of the Bitcoin Core developers who dislike hard forks. They are steadfastly against.
In short, they believe that the only mechanism that Bitcoin has to keep them in check should never be used.
I don’t think they really mean it to come across this way, but it does. Their view is that there shouldn’t be any alternative to their decisions. That anything they object to, for whatever reason, is killed forever … and that Bitcoin is thus their toy to do with as they please.
This state of affairs cannot go on. The Bitcoin Core project has shown it cannot reform and so it must be abandoned.
That is why Bitcoin has forked.
We hope everyone understands.
Open minded reading
Amazon isn’t the only company burning out their employees with unsustainable expectations. Let’s break the cycle.
Update: Want to achieve better work-life balance within your own team? Check out “Less is more: leading your team to better results through work-life balance” on the Asana blog.
— — —
Last week, I spoke to an ambitious group of high school students at SPARC in Berkeley. Several of them asked me about things I wish I had done or learned earlier in life, or regrets I had from earlier in my career. Again and again, I came back to the idea that I wish I had lived my life differently.
I wish I had slept more hours, and exercised regularly. I wish I had made better decisions about what to eat or drink — at times I consumed more soda and energy drinks than water. I wish I had made more time for other experiences that helped me grow incredibly quickly once I gave them a chance.
You might think: but if you had prioritized those things, wouldn’t your contributions have been reduced? Would Facebook have been less successful?
Actually, I believe I would have been more effective: a better leader and a more focused employee. I would have had fewer panic attacks, and acute health problems — like throwing out my back regularly in my early 20s. I would have picked fewer petty fights with my peers in the organization, because I would have been generally more centered and self-reflective. I would have been less frustrated and resentful when things went wrong, and required me to put in even more hours to deal with a local crisis. In short, I would have had more energy and spent it in smarter ways… AND I would have been happier. That’s why this is a true regret for me: I don’t feel like I chose between two worthy outcomes. No, I made a foolish sacrifice on both sides.
This week, the tech industry has been passionately debating a recent New York Times article about Amazon’s intense work culture. Many found the article one-sided, using dramatic anecdotes to caricature a culture built around passion and intensity, while some insiders have risen to publicly defend the company. However, as far as I can tell, most people do not contest that the culture is intense and people do work really hard at Amazon. Fundamentally, this is a familiar part of tech culture: at high performing companies, employees work extremely hard, to an extent that is unsustainable for most people.
But it doesn’t have to be this way.
Many people believe that weekends and the 40-hour workweek are some sort of great compromise between capitalism and hedonism, but that’s not historically accurate. They are actually the carefully considered outcome of profit-maximizing research by Henry Ford in the early part of the 20th century. He discovered that you could actually get more output out of people by having them work fewer days and fewer hours. Since then, other researchers have continued to study this phenomenon, including in more modern industries like game development.
The research is clear: beyond ~40–50 hours per week, the marginal returns from additional work decrease rapidly and quickly become negative. We have also demonstrated that though you can get more output for a few weeks during “crunch time” you still ultimately pay for it later when people inevitably need to recover. If you try to sustain crunch time for longer than that, you are merely creating the illusion of increased velocity. This is true at multiple levels of abstraction: the hours worked per week, the number of consecutive minutes of focus vs. rest time in a given session, and the amount of vacation days you take in a year.
Rest matters.
So it is with deep sadness that I observe the current culture of intensity in the tech industry. My intellectual conclusion is that these companies are both destroying the personal lives of their employees and getting nothing in return. A candidate recently deciding between Asana and another fast growing company told me that the other team starts their dinners at 830pm to encourage people to stay late (he’s starting here in a few weeks). I also hear young developers frequently brag about “48 hour” coding sprints. This kind of attitude not only hurts young workers who are willing to “step up” to the expectation, but facilitates ageism and sexism by indirectly discriminating against people who cannot maintain that kind of schedule.
Why are companies doing this? It must be some combination of 1/ not knowing the research 2/ believing the research is somehow flawed or doesn’t apply to them (they’re wrong) or 3/ understanding that many people see these cultural artifacts as a signal about the intensity and passion of the team. I believe it is a combination of all three factors, and the third one resonates particularly strongly with me. We’ve worked hard to build a culture at Asana where people don’t work too hard, but we sometimes have candidates tell us they are worried that means we don’t move fast enough, or have enough urgency. I’m not sure what I would do if I thought these values were actually in conflict, but fortunately they are not. We get to encourage a healthy work-life balance in the cold, hard pursuit of profit. We are maximizing our velocity and our happiness at the same time.
As an industry, we are falling short of our potential. We could be accomplishing more, and we could be providing a better life for all of the people who work in technology. If you’re going to devote the best years of your life to work, do so intentionally. You can do great things AND live your life well. You can have it all, and science says you should.
Note: I’ve written this from the perspective of the tech industry, since that’s my perspective, but the pattern definitely exists prominently in other industries, and in companies across all industries.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
“The best things we know and love started as tiny things.” — Joel Gascoigne
Buffer’s CEO, Joel, wrote a post not too long ago about the importance of starting small with new projects. He makes some great points about how easy it is to see the finished product of someone else’s hard work and forget about how long it took them to get to that point:
“It’s difficult to understand how the evolutionary process of products and brands contributes and is vital to what they are today.”
Joel goes on to say that success is more likely when we execute on small projects. Start small and let them grow, essentially.
To give us a little insight into just how simple some of the today’s juggernaut web companies were when they started out, I thought it would be fun to do some time traveling in the Wayback Machine. Design can’t tell us everything about what’s happening behind the scenes at a company, but it’s one way to visualize the progress of a product or service over time. Plus, each of these companies’ founders have some useful advice on why they started small and how it helped them grow into the successes they are today.
So let’s take a look at how these major companies evolved from their humble beginnings:

“I’m here to build something for the long-term. Anything else is a distraction.” — Mark Zuckerberg
Zuckerberg’s vision for Facebook is a big one: to make the world more socially connected. Although he started with a small solution to connect college students, Facebook has grown into one of the biggest, most popular social networks alive today, and continues to grow because he’s committed to building out the company over time:
“I know it sounds corny, but I’d love to improve people’s lives, especially socially… Making the world more open is not an overnight thing. It’s a ten-to-fifteen-year thing.”
Today, Facebook is bigger and more complicated than it was to start with, but Zuckerberg stays committed to his vision:
“A lot of founding principles of Facebook are that if people have access to more information and are more connected, it will make the world better; people will have more understanding, more empathy. That’s the guiding principle for me. On hard days, I really just step back, and that’s the thing that keeps me going.”


“When Sergey and I founded Google, we hoped, but did not expect, it would reach its current size and influence. Our intense and enduring interest was to objectively help people find information efficiently.” — Larry Page
Google’s design has remained sparse over the years, even as the company has expanded and added more services like Maps, YouTube, Gmail and Drive. When you hit Google.com today, it’s still clear what one thing Google is focused on: finding information.
Tumblr’s founder David Karp created the service to fill a need he had. Blogging was becoming more popular but it was mainly focused on writing — something Karp rightly assumed that not everyone wanted to do.
“You get that big empty box, and it demands that you come up with like a witty headline that convinces people to click over and care about your post, it demands several paragraphs of nicely formatted HTML with little aligned images, and a real editorial voice, real writing.” — David Karp
Today, Karp attributes Tumblr’s success — with its vision of “more stuff” including visuals like photos and GIFs — to continuing the strong focus of building something his team loves and uses:
“I think something that is still very true of Tumblr today is it is still a product our team builds for ourselves first and foremost and something we’re excited to use every day, and we spend hours every day using. I’d like to believe that not only comes through in the product, but that it’s kept us close to what Tumblr is really about, kept us from straying too far from that, and that I think kept it true to the original vision.”

The YouTube team is committed to testing their assumptions and building based on how the community engages with their product, based on previous experience:
“We had a lot of our own ideas about how the service would evolve. Coming from PayPal and eBay, we saw YouTube as a powerful way to add video to auctions, but we didn’t see anyone using our product that way, so we didn’t add features to support it.” — Chad Hurley
Co-founder Chad Hurley advises other startup founders to test their assumptions and listen to users, rather than jumping into a big product roadmap from the beginning, based soley on your own vision:

Yahoo!, like most of these companies, started out as a very small project to solve a specific problem: the founders had trouble digging up websites they wanted to revisit later, so they started cataloging the web.
“We called it ‘Jerry’s Guide to the World Wide Web.’ Before we knew it, people from all over the world were using this database that we created.” — Jerry Yang
From his experience at Yahoo!, co-founder Jerry Yang suggests being prepared for scaling up your business:


“We innovate by starting with the customer and working backwards. That becomes the touchstone for how we invent.” — Jeff Bezos
Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, insists that putting customers first since the beginning has been — and continues to be — the best competitive advantage Amazon has.
Since Amazon’s humble beginning as an online bookstore, it’s become a huge online retailer, selling almost everything. But even with huge growth, Bezos remains focused on what customers want:
“When [competitors are] in the shower in the morning, they’re thinking about how they’re going to get ahead of one of their top competitors. Here in the shower, we’re thinking about how we are going to invent something on behalf of a customer.”

There are plenty of other examples of starting small. In Joel’s post, he shares the example of Dale Carnegie’s book, How to Win Friends and Influence People, which started out as a short talk and some notes on an index card.
Another example I love is the “email-first startup.” Sunrise is a great example: what started out as a daily email digest is now a full-fledged calendar app for iPhone.
If you liked this post, you might also like The Habits of Successful People: They Have a Growth Mindset and People Don’t Buy Products, They Buy Better Versions of Themselves.
Originally published at blog.bufferapp.com on February 13, 2014.Image credits: Complex, Wayback Machine, Toby Bradbury
Interested in social media tips & strategies that set you up for success?

25 social media strategies and video tips, delivered daily
Buffer helps you share to Twitter, Facebook, Pinterest, LinkedIn & more. We're a team of 30+ spread across the world. We're hiring! http://buffer.com/journey
Sharing our ideas and experiences


Every early stage startup has doubters, naysayers, and skeptics. These people will tell you that you can’t do it, that you shouldn’t do it, that you are wasting your time. They will tell you that your idea is stupid and that you are burning your investor’s money.
Can you blame them? Let’s be honest here, when you first heard of Twitter, could you have guessed that it would be a $20B public company? Or even better, what if two students pitched you on the 17th search engine, when clearly you already knew that Yahoo cornered that market.
Add to this, that as an entrepreneur, you are filled with your own self-doubt. You will question why you left your safe job and risked everything for this idea that no one believes in except for you.
When that time comes, read this. Read this as a reminder that even the billon-dollar unicorns started off as fragile little babies.
To bring this point home, check out these amazing comment threads we found across the web.
On July 15, 2006, Techcrunch published a story about Odeo launching Twitter. The naysayers came out by the hundreds. Here is the headline:

And here are some of the comments. I especially love this first one:
In case you missed it, the commenter insisted on capitalizing NEVER. Classic.
Here’s another, a bit longer.
Although, I will give the commenter credit for claiming Twitter is not focused… which arguably is an accurate assessment even to this day. ;)
One more for good laughs:
That one actually names names (CRV) and ponders if burning money in a big BBQ party would be a better use of their investment.

Founded by an ex-Googler, Instagram actually started as a location-based mobile app. Here is the TechCrunch article (Sept 20, 2010) covering Instagram’s launch:


And here are two comments for your reading pleasure:
Oh man that was a doozy. Can someone please talk to the VCs and make sure they are funding real business models. Thank you.
One more:

Someone is going to make a plugin for cameras that already has filters… yeah they did, it’s called Instagram and it’s a mobile app. Nice one.

I’ve included two TC headlines for Uber. There is enough negative comments to go around and I wanted to give you a taste of how the comments change as the company matures.
Here is the first headline I could find on TechCrunch about UberCab (July 5, 2010) when Ryan Graves was still CEO:

This commenter wants to remind us that Uber’s monopoly is coming to an end (note this comment was made in 2012):

There were a couple other commenters on the above article accusing Uber of being a “fraud” and “complete crap.” They followed up with constructive advice, which is helpful.
Here is another headline, just seven months later:

Check out this beefy comment. We have what seems to be a domain expert:
That commenter walked us through the economics behind the taxi market and why Uber’s valuation is way too high ($60M post). Hold the phones, the taxi busy is very “mom and pop”… can someone call Travis ASAP please.
And one more shorter comment:
Is Uber equivalent to calling a taxi? I wouldn’t know — I’ve never really “called” a taxi but I do use Uber/Lyft almost weekly.


Pinterest launched in March 2010. It closed a round for $10M in mid 2011 and then another larger round for $27M in October, 2011, valuing the company around $200M.

The commenters here aren’t as bearish as they were on the others. Also, TechCrunch was using Facebook commenting system at the time and I suspect this had something to do with it. Here’s a commenter reminding us how “stupid” of an idea Pinterest is and how “gullible” startup VCs are:

Here’s another shorter comment. To this person’s credit, it could be argued that Pinterest is in fact a “sophisticated bookmarking system.” Nevertheless, it’s a good one at that.


So there you have it folks — four awesome startups that got trolled on their launch day. Although we can easily look back and laugh at these comments, there are hundreds of other startups that didn’t have it so easy.
Surely there is a lesson here. What you need to remind yourself of — and what is most important here — is that as long as you follow your passion, trust your gut, and work your ass off, the end will likely justify the means. Ignore the haters and do you. Do you. Follow your heart, follow your passion. Focus on your product and your brand advocates.

Like this post? Click ‘recommend’ below or throw me a tweet at @benhoffman_.
Thank you @danscalco for the help & inspiration on this post.
Learn, Teach, Repeat.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
I have a warning for you.
Ten years ago, or even five, this warning would have been simple. Back then, when screenwriters got together to bitch (which was often) it was usually about directors for being bullies, or for trying to steal a shared “Screenplay by” credit, or cutting necessary dialogue, or just plain botching things.
But, that’s not the case anymore.
The sands under all of us have shifted. And today, directors — even the arrogant ones — are running scared like everybody else.
When I started writing there were still a few mavericks out there; a few gunslingers who ran studios.
These were people who went with their guts and would make a movie just because they believed in it.
But that’s not the process anymore.
Today, before a studio chair can green-light a movie, that movie must also be blessed by the head of marketing, the head of foreign sales, and the head of home video.
It must be subjected to a process called “running the numbers,” which means that the movie’s cost — or, downside — is compared against its potential value because of its cast and what it might do in foreign markets.
This process takes into account every variable except the variable which actually matters — the one that can't possibly be gauged by any sort of calculus — which is whether or not the movie’s going to be any good.
And yet the process continues.
There are other challenges too. Ones born of progress itself.
It’s axiomatic now that the technology of movie making has never been greater than it is today, but I don't think any of us can honestly say that movies themselves have never been greater.
These things are not unrelated.
Suppose we were going to shoot a scene in a typical room. We can now, if we want to, add elements to that scene to make it more visually arresting.
We could light the ceiling on fire by using CGI.
We could enhance the experience by projecting it in 3-D.
Does any of this have anything to do with story, or character? No.
But, it would look great in the trailer.
That kind of thinking, the idea that dazzling visuals are enough, has led to a certain kind of movie-making laziness that has not been good for anybody.
Worse, it’s made it tougher and tougher to dazzle the audience because they know out there now that we’re making movies with software instead of cameras.
We’re storytellers, which means we have to do better. Sometimes I think we have to rescue the business from the very people who own it.
The good news is, we can.
Inside every one of you is the flame that has always lit the way in this industry, which is originality — that one spark of an idea, that one archetypal character, story, truth, or world that no one’s ever captured before.
Do you remember the movie WALL-E, the brilliant Pixar film?
He’s in a dangerous world and he’s one of thousands who are supposed to clean it up.
But, there’s something special about WALL-E. He finds this little tiny sprig which might one day become a plant. He guards it, and saves it, and preserves it on the chance that it might some day turn into something beautiful.
Well, Hollywood is that dangerous world and you are WALL-E.
That’s your charge now — greatness.
You have to pursue it every single day in everything you do; in your work ethic, in the way you conduct yourself, in who you choose to do business with.
You are now part of the most collaborative medium anywhere in the world and much of your success in it is going to be determined by how well you listen.
I was very fortunate in that regard. As the child of divorced parents, I learned early how to take two warring factions and make them both feel they had been heard.
This works fantastic in meetings.
You’re going to get a lot of notes in your career. And it’ll be your instinct to resent them. But, I’m telling you now to ignore this instinct.
The fact is that most of the notes you get will be smart and thoughtful.
And all of them — even the bad ones — will teach you something about where you failed to articulate something as clearly as you had it in your head or where something just didn’t make it on the page, where something just didn’t land.
But what will mostly define you more than anything else is what projects you say yes to and what projects you say no to.
Here’s a rule of thumb about that.
If someone offers you a job on a project that has real heat, a star attached to it, or some wonderful pedigree, and you find that you’re not waking up every morning thinking about it, if it’s not living inside of you trying to claw its way out, then don’t write it.
And always remember that if you are inspired we will be too.
The best advice I ever heard about writing came from Paddy Chayefsky — he, of Network and The Hospital. He also wrote Marty. (That’s three Oscars.)
Chayefsky’s advice to writers was simple: Don’t think of it as art, think of it as work.
Because when a writer is stuck and he or she calls in another writer for help, that second writer doesn’t say, “What’s the art problem?”
That second writer says, “What’s not working?” And they get under the hood and fix it together.
That’s most of what you’ll do in your career — work, problem solving. Approach it in that way and then at the end of every day, you’ll at least be able to say, “I did my job today.”
If you’re an artist, it’ll come out as art anyway.
The truth is there are millions of variables that will profoundly affect your career. Variables over which you have zero control.
You have no control over the state of the economy or over the health of our industry.
You have no say in whether or not the DVD business flat-lines, or whether or not the market is suddenly ripe for thrillers or superhero movies or — god help us — romantic comedies.
So maximize that variable.
I take my son to his bus stop every morning at 7:30. I’m at my desk working by 8:00. Somebody feeds me at 1:00 and I’m back at my desk by 1:30, working until 6:00.
I don’t surf the web. I don’t gamble online. I don’t go to the local Starbucks for two hours. I don’t try to seek out old girlfriends on Facebook.
I don’t do anything that requires time. I just work.
I do this because there’s a mountaintop that I’m trying to get to and I’m nowhere near it.
I can see it from here. But, the accomplishments of our greatest writers, that’s the Holy Grail for me.
I want to leave a legacy like they did.
I want to spend a lot of time in tuxedos.
The next time the AFI does a list of the 100 greatest movies of all time, I want my name on one of them, at least.
And I want some day in 2032, for someone to cite one of my movies with the same kind of reverence I have for those movies of the ‘70s.
Luck will not get me there, although I will need plenty of it.
The only thing that will get me there is my willingness to write that 15th draft, or proofread it one more time, or be open to notes from someone who’s smarter than I am.
It may be that I’ll get notes from one of you one day. And I trust that they’ll be good ones.
I’ll leave you with one last thought.
At the Writers’ Guild building on Third and Fairfax there’s a library. In that library you can read any screenplay that you’d ever want to read.
Visit that library. It’s your history up on those shelves; the bar that was set for you by the writers that have preceded you.
Their struggles belong to you now. Cherish them. Learn from them. Let them challenge you to keep getting better.
I wish you nothing but the best.
This is an excerpt from Billy Ray’s keynote speech at the 2012 Academy Nicholl Fellowship awards.
We are The Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences and we champion the power of human imagination.
A conversation about the power of movies
“they said ‘how ya gonna keep your job if ya performance has suffered from low morale’ eem the janitor was dyin”
I got fired two days ago.
It was a slight surprise. I knew it was going to happen, but I didn’t expect for it to happen so soon.
Getting fired was embarrassing. I have never been fired before! Being asked to turn in my key and access card, and that they would pack up and mail me my stuff... Having my big boss escort me to my cubicle to make sure I wouldn’t steal any paperclips… I felt like a slug being salted to death while a cruel child smiled down. I had relocated! I had been there over two years! That had to at least count for something, right?
No.
Getting fired was sad. All those Peewee Longway memes saved on my work computer… gone. I’ll never get those back.
Getting fired was frightening. My wife and two daughters rely on me to pay our bills, and I felt like I had failed them. I’m lucky enough that I will receive my salary and benefits through the end of the month, but the prospect of being unemployed with a family induced a mini-crisis. I’ll be able to find a job in a few days, right? Right?! RIGHT!?!? As my breathing normalized and the initial surrealness wore off on the walk to my car, another emotion washed over me.
Getting fired felt good.
I was free. Finally. I should have left this job 8 months ago, but I was a coward, dragging my feet because things were awful but manageable. I sat at a computer all day with no creative outlet, just days full of .xlsx attachments and “Hi Team” email greetings. Did I like what I was doing? Not really. Did it pay well enough to make me compromise myself? Yes. It was a decent job that I sometimes excelled at during those rare occasions when I was engaged. For months, I convinced myself that it would get better. My manager, parents, anyone I talked to said the same thing: “Well, of course you aren’t going to be happy, but you just have to do the work!”
What an absurd concept. The thing I spend a majority of my life devoted to isn’t supposed to bring me an iota of joy? It’s not like having a job you hate makes you appreciate your free time more ( *Very Optimistic Tumblr Teen Voice* The bad makes you appreciate the good!) Having a job that eats away at your very core actually sullies your free time more. You realize how little of it you do have and often forsake it. You dread having to go back. It poisons your psyche. I was miserable from 8:30 am to 6:30 pm five days a week, and when I came home the transition from miserable to happy was slow.
I developed a habit of stopping at the gas station by my house to chug one or two Wicked Redd’s Apple Ales (don’t judge me [it’s the best value at 2 for $5 {and 8% ABV}]) to shake the rust off my personality before I walked through the door. I’m not proud to admit this; it’s pathetic. However, I was a nicer, happier person, which in turn made me a “better” husband and father. Do the ends justify the means?
If my despondency was a broken leg, I used alcohol as an ill-fitting crutch I got for a bargain at a garage sale. I got by, but never tried to fix the real issue.
I met with the vice president the week prior to discuss working remotely — I wanted to move back to Greenville, SC, from Columbia, SC, to be closer to family — and my dissatisfaction with my current roles and career path. It did not go well. For every issue I had there were just no real resolutions either in the short or long term. I got frustrated. When my wife inquired how the meeting went I described it as “two people who were dating having an argument and walking away feeling like they broke up but weren’t sure.” Oh yeah, baby! When that premonition hits!!! >>>>>
What this taught me is that Corporate America gives not one fuck about you. It doesn’t matter how long it’s been there or valuable it is, a cog gets no sympathy or funeral when it falters. It gets replaced. I know the reason I was fired was due to recurring issues regarding lack of communication but they had just given me a 20% raise at the beginning of this year for the hard work I put in during The Holiday Season (our busiest and most lucrative period). They know what I’m capable of, but it’s more about results than morale. I don’t blame them for firing me. My work had suffered, and I had detached. Psych! It’s everyone else’s fault but my own.
I’m not sure what I’ll do next. Do I try to go after another bland SEM job and fall back into the trap? Continue this cycle for the rest of my life? I hope not. Do I try to switch industries? That is certainly an option. Or do I dare to take a risk and sacrifice a bit of money for a bit of fulfillment? That sounds good in theory… but who knows. Maybe I can make something crazy work.
My buddy shared this misquotation with me by Thoreau at lunch hours before I got fired (the quote itself isn’t actually by Thoreau at all, and he really only said the first half of it): “Most men lead lives of quiet desperation and go to the grave with the song still in them.” Even though it’s a bastardized Frankenstein mash-up of a Thoreau sentence and an Oliver Wendell Holmes sentence… it actually has more impact that way. It helped me. Perchance it helps one of you out there.
In the meantime, I’ve got 4 weeks and a considerable amount of time to devote to churning out content. I no longer have any excuses to not send out pitches and finish aging drafts. The amount of Fire Tweets™ I can get off now that I don’t have to respond to client needs is going to make you vomit in your own lap.
Still, I am looking for a job so if you are a benevolent Internet Person with real world hiring power, here’s my very cute LinkedIn profile. Hit me up. Let’s build. Though, I suppose if you are, and you read this… my chances aren’t very strong.
Just trying to have fun on the Internet. Surreally oucheah. #TeamGuddaGudda

Death is always a surprise. No one expects it. Not even terminal patients think they are going to die in a day or two. In a week, maybe. But only when this particular week is the next week.
We are never ready. It is never the right time. By the time it comes, you will not have done all the things that we wanted to. The end always comes as a surprise, and it’s a tearful moment for widows and a bore for the children who don’t really understand what a funeral is (thank God).
It was no different with my father. In fact, his death was even more unexpected. He was gone at age 27. The same age that claimed the lives of several famous musicians. He was young. Way too young. My father was not a musician and neither a famous person. Cancer doesn’t pick its victims. He was gone when I was young, and I learned what a funeral was because of him. I was 8 and half, old enough to miss him for a lifetime. Had he died before, I wouldn’t have memories. I would feel no pain. But I wouldn’t have a father in my life. And I had a father.
I had a father who was both firm and fun. Someone who would tell a joke before grounding me. That way, I wouldn’t feel so bad. Someone who kissed me on the forehead before I went to sleep. A habit which I passed on to my children. Someone who forced me to support the same football team he supported, and who explained things better than my mother. Do you know what I mean? A father like that is someone to be missed.
He never told me he was going to die. Even when he was lying on a hospital bed with tubes all over him, he didn’t say a word. My father made plans for the next year even though he knew he wouldn’t be around in the next month. Next year, we would go fishing, we would travel, we would visit places we’ve never been. Next year would be an amazing year. We lived the same dream.
I believe — actually I’m sure — he thought this should bring luck. He was a superstitious man. Thinking about the future was the way he found to keep hope alive. The bastard made me laugh until the very end. He knew about it. He didn’t tell me. He didn’t see me crying.
And suddenly, the next year was over before it even started.
My mother picked me up at school and we went to the hospital. The doctor told the news with all the sensitivity that doctors lose over the years. My mother cried. She did have a tiny bit of hope. As I said before, everyone does. I felt the blow. What does it mean? Wasn’t it just a regular disease, the kind of disease doctors heal with a shot? I hated you, dad. I felt betrayed. I screamed with anger in the hospital, until I realized my father was not around to ground me. I cried.
Then, my father was once again a father to me. With a shoebox under her arm, a nurse came by to comfort me. The box was full of sealed envelopes, with sentences where the address should be. I couldn’t understand exactly what was going on. The nurse then handed me a letter. The only letter that was out of the box.
“Your dad asked me to give you this letter. He spent the whole week writing these, and he wants you read it. Be strong.” the nurse said, holding me.
The envelope read WHEN I’M GONE. I opened it.

Son,
If you’re reading this, I’m dead. I’m sorry. I knew I was going to die.
I didn’t want to tell you what was going to happen, I didn’t want to see you crying. Well, it looks like I’ve made it. I think that a man who’s about to die has the right to act a little bit selfish.
Well, as you can see, I still have a lot to teach you. After all, you don’t know crap about anything. So I wrote these letters for you. You must not open them before the right moment, OK? This is our deal.
I love you. Take care of your mom. You’re the man of the house now.
Love, dad.

PS: I didn’t write letters to your mom. She’s got my car.

He made me stop crying with his bad handwriting. Printing was not easy back then. His ugly writing, which I barely understood, made me feel calm. It made me smile. That’s how my father did things. Like the joke before the grounding.
That box became the most important thing in the world for me. I told my mother not to open it. Those letters were mine and no one else could read them. I knew all the life moments written on the envelopes by heart. But it took a while for these moments to happen. And I forgot about it.
Seven years later, after we moved to a new place, I had no idea where I put the box. I couldn’t remember it. And when we don’t remember something, we usually don’t care about it. If something goes lost in your memory, It doesn’t mean you lost it. It simply doesn’t exist anymore. It’s like change in the pockets of your trousers.
And so it happened. My teenage years and my mother’s new boyfriend triggered what my father had anticipated a long time before. My mother had several boyfriends, and I always understood it. She never married again. I don’t know why, but I like to believe that my father had been the love of her life. This boyfriend, however, was worthless. I thought she was humiliating herself by dating him. He had no respect for her. She deserved something a lot better than a guy she met at a bar.
I still remember the slap she gave me after I pronounced the word “bar”. I’ll admit that I deserved it. I learned that over the years. At the time, when my skin was still burning from the slap, I remembered the box and the letters. I remembered a specific letter, which read “WHEN YOU HAVE THE WORST FIGHT EVER WITH YOUR MOM”.
I ransacked my bedroom looking for it, which earned me another slap in the face. I found the box inside a suitcase lying on top of the wardrobe. The limbo. I looked through the letters, and realized that I had forgotten to open WHEN YOU HAVE YOUR FIRST KISS. I hated myself for doing that, and I decided that would be the next letter I’d open. WHEN YOU LOSE YOUR VIRGINITY came right next in the pack, a letter I was hoping to open really soon. Eventually I found what I was looking for.

Now apologize to her.
I don’t know why you’re fighting and I don’t know who’s right. But I know your mother. So a humble apology is the best way to get over this. I’m talking about a down-on-your-knees apology.
She’s your mother, kid. She loves you more than anything in this world. Do you know that she went through natural birth because someone told her that it would be the best for you? Have you ever seen a woman giving birth? Do you need a bigger proof of love than that?
Apologize. She’ll forgive you.
Love, dad.

My father was not a great writer, he was just a bank clerk. But his words had a great impact on me. They were words that carried more wisdom than all of my 15 years of age at the time. (That wasn’t very hard to achieve, though).
I rushed to my mother’s room and opened the door. I was crying when she turned her head to look me in the eyes. She was also crying. I don’t remember what she yelled at me. Probably something like “What do you want?” What I do remember is that I walked towards her holding the letter my father wrote. I held her in my arms, while my hands crumpled the old paper. She hugged me, and we both stood in silence.
My father’s letter made her laugh a few minutes later. We made peace and talked a little about him. She told me about some of his most eccentric habits, such as eating salami with strawberries. Somehow, I felt he was sitting right next to us. Me, my mother and a piece of my father, a piece he left for us, on a piece of paper. It felt good.
It didn’t take long before I read WHEN YOU LOSE YOUR VIRGINITY

Congratulations, son.
Don’t worry, it gets better with time. It always sucks the first time. Mine happened with an ugly woman…who was also a prostitute.
My biggest fear is that you’d ask your mother what virginity is after reading what’s on the letter. Or even worse, reading what I just wrote without knowing what jerking off is (you know what it is, right?). But that’s none of my business.
Love, dad.

My father followed me through my entire life. He was with me, even though he was not near me. His words did what no one else could: they gave me strength to overcome countless challenging moments in my life. He would always find a way to put a smile on my face when things looked grim, or clear my mind during those angry moments.
WHEN YOU GET MARRIED made me feel very emotional. But not so much as WHEN YOU BECOME A FATHER.

Now you’ll understand what real love is, son. You’ll realize how much you love her, but real love is something you’ll feel for this little thing over there. I don’t know if it’s a boy or a girl. I’m just a corpse, I’m not a fortune teller.
Have fun. It’s a great thing. Time is gonna fly now, so make sure you’ll be around. Never miss a moment, they never come back. Change diapers, bathe the baby, be a role model to this child. I think you have what it takes to be an amazing father, just like me.

The most painful letter I read in my entire life was also the shortest letter my father wrote. While he wrote those four words, I believe he suffered just as much as I did living through that moment. It took a while, but eventually I had to open WHEN YOUR MOTHER IS GONE.

She is mine now.

A joke. A sad clown hiding his sadness with a smile on his makeup. It was the only letter that didn’t make me smile, but I could see the reason.
I always kept the deal I had made with my father. I never read letters before their time. With the exception of WHEN YOU REALIZE YOU’RE GAY. Since I never thought I’d have to open this one, I decided to read it. It was one of the funniest letters, by the way.

What can I say? I’m glad I’m dead.
Now, all joking aside, being half-dead made me realize that we care too much about things that don’t matter much. Do you think that changes anything, son?
Don’t be silly. Be happy.

I would always wait for the next moment, the next letter. The next lesson my father would teach me. It’s amazing what a 27 year old man can teach to an 85 year old senior like me.
Now that I am lying on a hospital bed, with tubes in my nose and my throat thanks to this damn cancer, I run my fingers on the faded paper of the only letter I didn’t open. The sentence WHEN YOUR TIME COMES is barely visible on the envelope.
I don’t want to open it. I’m scared. I don’t want to believe that my time is near. It’s a matter of hope, you know? No one believes they’re gonna die.
I take a deep breath, opening the envelope.

Hello, son. I hope you’re an old man now.
You know, this letter was the easiest to write, and the first I wrote. It was the letter that set me free from the pain of losing you. I think your mind becomes clearer when you’re this close to the end. It’s easier to talk about it.
In my last days here I thought about the life I had. I had a brief life, but a very happy one. I was your father and the husband of your mother. What else could I ask for? It gave me peace of mind. Now you do the same.
My advice for you: you don’t have to be afraid
PS: I miss you
Just figuring the best way to be you.
Hi! Today seems like a good day to answer some frequently asked questions.
Q: Are you marking any significant anniversaries today?
A: Yes, yes I am! Today is the second anniversary of Steve’s death.
Q: Who is Steve?
A: Steve was my husband uh DOI.
Q: Urm, now I feel bad for not knowing that.
A: It’s fine. At the two year point I find myself having to make more and more choices about whether or not I immediately blurt out HEYDIDYOUKNOWI’MAWIDOWTHAT’SMYFUNFACT!!!!!!! People in my life are less likely to have been around then and more likely to need to be briefed on this backstory. This is extremely annoying because after two years, I still don’t have a better way to relate this information than all caps-no spaces shouting.
But beneath that, it’s actually a super awesome thing, because it means that my world has gotten so much bigger in these two years. I’ve met a lot of people, and done a lot of things that I maybe only mildly imagined doing before.
Q: Dude, that sort of makes it sound like you’re glad Steve died.
A: I’m not, and that’s kind of a dick thing to say.
Q: I’M SORRY, I’M SORRY, I’M SORRY!
A: Ha ha, SIKE! I’m just fucking with you. I’m not glad Steve died, not even a little. He has missed SO MUCH COOL SHIT. He missed the opening with Cuba, which he would have been really stoked about. He’s missing an equality revolution in spaces around gender and sexual identity, race, police power, capital, and class. He’s missing whatever they’re doing with Hine over at Eastern Market. He’s missing our cat Claudia’s turbulent adolescence. He’s missing BERNIE SANDERS ELIZABETH WARRREN AND LAWRENCE LESSIG ‘NUFF SAID.
Also, I’m missing him. Obviously. A lot. BUT: I have a cousin who’s also a widow, and she told my sister that she’s not sure if she’d bring her husband back. Which sounds TOTALLY CRAZY to other people, BUT: When you experience a loss like this, you get to see a really wild new amount of life. Suddenly the range of the type of sad you can feel, to the type of happy you can feel, is busted open. The spectrum from happy to sad isn’t a foot wide anymore — it’s as far as your arms can stretch and then to the edges of the room and then up the block and over into the next neighborhood.
So I am not happy that Steve died. But I am happy a lot of the time, which I didn’t really anticipate on this day two years ago.
Q: What happened on this day two years ago?
A: Good question! While many people know that I am a widow, probably not a ton know what went down. Pretty much no one knows exactly what went down, because I don’t even know what happened.
What I do know is that for a couple of weeks, Steve had what we thought was a summer cold. Some coughing, some sneezing. Then he started a new job, and felt like that stress was compounding the illness — but it didn’t occur to either of us that this was a thing that was more than just something passing. He certainly didn’t think it was worth taking a sick day during his first week of work.
That Friday he came home from work REALLY REALLY sick. He’d barely been able to drive. I made him get up off the couch and go to an urgent care. The doctor there prescribed him an antibiotic and said “it’s either the flu or it’s not, so this will either work or it won’t.” We went to CVS and got the scrip filled right as they were closing. I had to pull a cry face to get them to fill it, and when I got back to the car I was pretty proud of myself for badgering them into doing it — I told Steve that “bitches get shit done.” Tina Fey went on to steal this line from me. (Right? I’m pretty sure that’s how this went down, but my memory isn’t great.)
Steve didn’t sleep very well that night. Around 5 a.m. he couldn’t sleep, so we woke up and watched some 30 Rock together. (The degree to which Tina Fey figures into this story is only being revealed to me now, two years later.) I went back to sleep. Around 9 a.m. I made my way up to Eastern Market to get groceries, and when I got back, Steve came down the stairs, carrying a bunch of his sick dude things — probably some Kleenexes, his thermometer, a seltzer can. I joked about him doing a Rachael Ray carry. Then he started coughing.
I don’t remember the sequence of events very well. He was sitting on the couch at one point and I encouraged him to cough it up, whatever it was. At one point he went into the kitchen and looked out the glass door to the patio, and said “Oh fuck.”
He started coughing up blood. I went to get him a bowl to cough into, and then said “that’s it, I’m calling 911.” And then he collapsed onto his knees, and fell on the ground.
The 911 operator wasn’t super helpful. I kept asking if I should do CPR and she kept asking if he was responsive, if he was breathing. I was surprised by how hard it was to tell. At one point I pulled on his ear to see if he would respond. I turned him on his side and tried to clear his airway. I cajoled the 911 operator, but weirdly, in the moment, I was really focused on being polite. Like, using a ton of please and thank you, as if that would make the fire truck get up Florida Avenue faster. Finally, after a couple of minutes, I heard the sirens and the operator said to me “well, let me just make sure that’s for you.” Because, Welcome to Washington, D.C., District Slogan: Those Sirens Might Not Be For You.
The EMTs cut off his shirt and intubated him, but they didn’t shock him. They used a machine to tell them whether or not to do it, and the machine said “don’t.” I don’t know if it was “don’t bother” or “you don’t need to.” I don’t know if they knew this wasn’t going to end well or not. They asked me how old he was, which I assume was to gauge whether to keep working or not.
Once we were in the ambulance, I asked where we were going and one of the EMTs just sort of nodded “no” to me, and indicated I should hold on. It felt like we sat there for a long time, trying to figure out what was happening. I struggled to call my parents with my cellphone — which was, ironically a recurring nightmare for me. That something was happening to Steve and I’d have to dial 911 and I wouldn’t be able to unlock my phone or dial the right number. Eventually I got my dad, who was in North Carolina, and he sent my sister over, who luckily was already down in the city helping a friend move.
Then I had to call Steve’s parents, which was horrible. Steve’s mom was excited to hear from me, since on their end, it was just a normal Saturday morning. And I had to say, no, turn down, your son’s in the back of an ambulance and the EMT just gave me a “no” nod.
Eventually we took off for Howard University Hospital, which was the closest ER. They took me into a tiny little room that wasn’t square, so all of the furniture was crammed in at weird angles. A chaplain came in and said some very anatomically specific prayers, which even as they were cutting Steve open and trying to resuscitate his heart directly, I thought was funny. My sister Sarah showed up, and they called a Catholic chaplain so he could give Steve last rites. I don’t know how the last rites went, but in terms of dealing with the non-dying, that guy was fucking terrible. I wish I could remember his name so I could pan him on Yelp.
Doctors would come in pretty frequently to update me, but only one or two of those times were they hopeful. Apparently his heart caught a couple of times, but it never stayed working. When the doctor came in to tell me that they’d declared a time of death, I made him tell it to Steve’s parents on the phone.
Sarah and I saw him at least twice, once while they were still working on him, and once after they’d cleaned him up. As they led me out of the ER, I told the nurse that I was conflicted about whether or not I should take a photo of his body. She told me I’d see him again, at the funeral, and that I should just focus on sleeping and eating. And then I said “I can’t believe it, he was such a good husband.”
And she said, “Yeah, but he did a shitty thing today.”
And that was the first time I laughed after Steve died.
Ultimately what seems to have happened is that an infection developed in his heart. This is probably related to the surgery he’d had around Christmas, to repair an aneurysm in a valve in his heart. I don’t have better clarity than this, and to some extent, the facts I did dig up, I’ve forgotten. It’s impossible to overstate what a hit your memory takes when you lose someone. It’s also impossible to overstate what a bureaucratic clusterfuck it is. GUYS, I CAN’T STRESS THIS ENOUGH: IF YOU SHARE A PHONE PLAN WITH SOMEONE, MAKE SURE EVERYONE’S AN AUTHORIZED USER.
Q: Um damn, I’m like, a little overwhelmed now.
A: Yeah, me too. I’ve been that way for two years. So if you sent me an email and I didn’t respond to it, that’s what happened. I couldn’t respond to your query about a story pitch because my husband coughed to death.
Q: So how are you doing in general?
A: I mean, like I keep saying, it’s fine. I realized today that I’d never much thought about what would happen after two years. After one year, I thought I might try to date (and in fact I tried earlier than that, and it was COMICALLY BAD). In year two I thought I might be in a good enough head space to make a career transition (also: fail).
But now, with no more map — with truly no expectation that getting this far was a real possibility, I feel like I’m starting to be strong enough to do the work to make those sorts of things happen. I have the beginnings of a plan and a little bit of vision about how to pursue the kind of creative community I want to be part of, and the resources to do that, even if it doesn’t make any money. Even though it’s frightening, I feel like I’m getting closer to being able to hand someone my soppy bruised tomato of a heart. If they cup their hands and treat it with gentle little kitten paws, I think I might be ok.
One thing is for sure — I used to fucking HATE IT when people asked me, with that welling sincerity in their eyes, “but how ARE you?” I probably don’t actually hate it any less, but it happens less now.
Q: What have you learned over the past two years?
A: Hoo boy. HOO BOY. HUUUUUOOOOOOOHHHHHHH BOOOOOOOOOY.
Q: It sort of seems like you’re stalling, tbh.
A: Busted. I think about that question a lot. I would love to unequivocally be like “I am so much more empathetic now, and I have grand insights into the universe!”
But that’s not really the case. I haven’t really had a magnificent realization about the necessity of doing what you love, or cutting the bullshit. For those of you who don’t know me, bullshit is my number one stock-in-trade. If I have had anything like a satori, I haven’t acted on it.
Probably the biggest finding of the past two years for me is that being comfortable being uncomfortable is a very effective way to be a human.
I am constantly trying to teach myself to watch my feelings as they pass through me, rather than chasing them away with Manhattans or Ambien or Netflix. I often fail at this. I am trying harder to engage with people as they are — not being afraid of strangers, asking better questions, really listening to the answers, not being afraid to go to a second location, being less judgmental.
Basically, I’m trying to have an open heart. I’ve learned that it’s really hard to do, but I think it’s probably the Step 1 of any attempt to really be alive, following something like this.
Q: I’ve noticed that throughout this FAQ you’ve used two spaces after a period.
A: Yeah, I’m not a fucking ANIMAL.
All my love,
Rachel
Producer @morningedition for @NPRNew rachelmendlward.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences
We’re on a journey together, you and me. We’ve come a long way, but design for the web is still in its adolescence. In the early aughts we learned to build websites without tables, then we learned to use data to make decisions. Emotion never played a role in driving page views, purchases or video plays. We just needed to get people from point A to point B. People live their entire lives online now, we’re embarking on a new frontier as designers; we’re designing frameworks for people to exist online — a lot like they do offline.
I first started to notice the disconnect between design and how people actually live after my mom died. Every Mother’s Day my inbox filled with messages suggesting gifts for my dead mom. It used to sting, especially when I worked at a greeting card company and all 10 of my test accounts would be bombarded with reminders she was gone. I felt utterly alone in those moments, but somewhere a marketer was watching open rates and conversions go up and to the right. They weren’t thinking about me, and it’s not personal, they’re making something for the majority of people — people whose moms don’t happen to be dead. Almost a decade later I’m pretty used to it, but I know even the most benign design can be loaded with risk.
When I worked in travel we ran the risk of sending people promotions based on trips they had booked for funerals. When I worked in insurance people most commonly accessed their policy documents after experiencing an accident. In one user test a woman was shown her credit score in an effort to provide more helpful context about how her auto policy rate was calculated. Confronted with this number she broke down in tears, the score triggered memories of a terrible hospitalization that had caused her family financial crisis. Even filing your taxes can be anxiety inducing if you’re down to the wire and can’t make sense of the software. People completing seemingly straightforward tasks do so in a variety of contexts and life circumstances. Humanity can be sad, complicated and messy. We don’t stop being human when we go online.Sometimes even when you’re trying to make something with the best intentions, something can go terribly wrong. Sometimes the very tools you create to protect people cause harm. What can we do?
For years designers have approached software as though it were neutral: here’s a set of options, now complete a task. In reality, people interact with software like it’s a human. As designers, we can shift our approach to thinking about how people might feel using our products much like we would think about having a conversation with another person. The ability to handle relationships and be aware of emotions is called emotional intelligence, and it’s what’s often missing in software design today.
Emotional intelligence is defined with five characteristics:

The difficult thing about “know thyself” as it applies to software, is that software doesn’t have feelings. Ultimately what’s expressed to a person using software is either explicit from a designer when we have opinions and try to persuade, or implicitly from how the interaction makes the person feel.For example, on Facebook, we want to be respectful guardians of people’s data, so in ad settings we want people to declare intent about how they want to be advertised to. This is in contrast to presenting an array of every possible option which a person may never take action on. We ask how you want to see ads: “Do you want to see ads based on your behavior?” This is how we designed empowerment: we gave people the tools to make an informed choice, by not muddying the message with all of the more granular options within that choice.
It’s easy for designers to be aware of our opinions and design interactions that support the outcomes we want. Being aware of how non-choices affect an experience is much more challenging. Emotions spread. Humans mirror. If a people perceive an interface as expressing an emotion, they are likely to also feel that emotion. Whether designers intend to or not, we’re building relationships. Imagine the relationship you might have with a piece of government software as if it were a person. How do we act and feel in relationships? Things can escalate quickly. An interaction could be just the latest in a series of slights, it’s like the app just left a wet towel on the floor or forgot to take out the trash. You’re screaming in your head “I can’t believe it’s doing this to me!” Maybe it’s preventing you from doing something really important, like renewing your license. This has a real effect on our bodies. A universal trigger for anger is a sense of endangerment, which can be signaled not just with physical threat, but more often symbolic threats: being treated unjustly, or being insulted and demeaned. This creates an energy surge in our body which lasts several minutes, but the effects of which can last much longer.
The risk with the neutrality of software is that we may be able to understand every possible logical outcome in a situation (though often we don’t) but we’re unable to assign values to those outcomes. This is especially true with binary systems: a person completes a task or they don’t. This sounds neutral, when in fact the consequences of not completing the task could range from inconvenient to devastating. This lack of awareness is where we get into trouble and sometimes unintentionally do harm. Reason without feeling is blind.
What is the cost of a decision that harms a few thousand people compared to a decision that irritates millions? Ellen Pao talks about problems of scale to The Washington Post “If mistakes are made 0.01 percent of the time, that could mean tens of thousands of mistakes.”So much of an emotional message is nonverbal, and a computer can’t pick up those cues. Designers can’t see people’s expressions or body language, but we can try to understand reactions by paying very careful attention to what people do, particularly in aggregate.Numbers often don’t mean what we think they do, they tell us the what but not the why. Metrics are a great way to come up with assumptions to be challenged, but don’t say a lot without context. If someone is spending more time in a product, is it because the product is great or because the person can’t find what they need?A friend of mine used a feature on a professional networking site that scraped her address book for contacts. She didn’t know the service would automatically connect her to every person in her inbox, an inbox that spans a decade. She was suddenly connected to a person she never wanted to speak to again. Somewhere in a data warehouse, the volume of connections on this service appears to be going up, which superficially seems good. However, the quality of those connections is diminishing. How many of these people actually want to be connected? How many are actually going to return to the site because they were connected to someone they exchanged an email with 3 years ago? That number going up isn’t very meaningful.

Designers need their users’ motivations to inform their own. The best way to understand motivation is to change perspective. Unfortunately, this isn’t always easy, and I had to learn the hard way. After college, as one does when adult problems and a desk job catch up to you, I gained a lot of weight — over a hundred pounds, which I later lost. I learned very quickly what it meant to live in a world not designed for me. Things most people take for granted are ordeals: seat belts on airplanes, buying functional workout clothes, or really any clothes. The first time I walked into a store and realized they didn’t carry my size I felt a lot of things. I felt like the store was actively hostile. I felt like the store was rejecting me and was saying another type of body was better than mine.
I do not recommend trying this.Our perspectives can also be informed by the people we spend time with. If a team is diverse, more perspectives are brought to the table, products have fewer blind spots and designers create more things people actually need. Think about five people you know with wildly different backgrounds and life circumstances, how would they feel using different products?
A little humility can go a long way. Designers are not the users of their products. Right as designers were learning about web standards, popular design offered the wisdom “scratch your own itch.” This works well for solving one specific problem, but ignores all other problems. Designers can’t assume everyone wants what we’re offering. People don’t always use things in the way we expect, only research can tell us what’s really going on.
For a while after my mom died, every birthday and Christmas my Stepdad would get me a Bath & Body Works gift card. His reasoning was that my mom loved Bath & Body Works, so I probably would to. I hate Bath & Body Works. His intentions were sweet and sincere, but every time I got one of those gift cards I felt like he didn’t know me. Every time I design something new I ask myself if I am giving someone Bath & Body Works gift cards.
Good content strategy is a great tool for communicating with an intentional tone. What’s the product’s voice? If the design were a person, how should it be perceived? Friend? Teacher? Trusted advisor? Sham-wow spokesperson? What kind of reaction could this voice elicit when someone is experiencing the product in the worst case scenario?Let’s be honest about priorities. The definition of priority is “a thing that is regarded as more important than another.” By prioritizing one thing, we are inherently deprioritizing something else, do I know what I’m deprioritizing? Eric Meyer says when you call something an edge case, you’re really just defining the limits of what you care about; he calls them stress cases. (He would also like to give credit for paraphrasing Evan Henſleigh.) In December Facebook’s Year in Review product suggested Eric should relive a “great” year, resurfacing a post about his daughter’s death. We invited him to come speak to us candidly about his experiences. Generously, he told us the reason we don’t see planes falling from the sky is because there’s 60 years of air crash data to draw on when designing planes.
This is uncharted territory, and mistakes are going to be made. When designers make mistakes we have to take responsibility to move forward. An honest process has enough time to test assumptions, and to be wrong and iterate on those assumptions. Good research will bring as many new questions as it does answer. Sometimes a product works great in carefully controlled tests, but won’t be stressed until wide release.

Without mindfulness, products might only be rude, but they might also affect someone’s health, their support systems, or their very livelihood. A good friend once told me that to be an adult is to be aware. It’s time for design to become an adult. As product and service design collide, designers are responsible for understanding every ripple of our work.
Nurture the relationships your products are creating as though they were happening in the physical world, and give without expecting anything in return. We have a saying at Facebook, this journey is 1% finished. No one can ever be fully aware, but designers have to be open to growth and the possibility we’re wrong. Less up and to the right, more up and to the heart.
Many thanks to Jonathon Colman, Lisa Sy, Hannah Fletcher and Ed Salvana for their feedback on my drafts.
I make creepy comics and toys, and design @ Facebook.
Stories from designers at Facebook offices across the world

A little over a year ago, I moved to London and as part of the move, I sold my car. This was a big deal for me as a native of LA, where car ownership is celebrated, no matter how bad the traffic gets. I owned a 2004 Toyota 4Runner with 140k miles (not all VCs fly in private jets to work). I am not a “car person,” but I loved my car because it almost never broke down in our ten years together. But, the move meant it had to go, and so it was sold for next-to-nothing to a really nice dad with two kids.
While I may have been sad to see my car go, I wasn’t concerned about being car-less because — when not on strike — public transportation is pretty good in Europe, and Uber is nearly ubiquitous in major cities. I knew Uber was more expensive in London, but everything was more expensive in London and I had factored that into my decision to move in the first place.
What I didn’t expect was that depending on Uber (UberX specifically) would actually be cheaper than owning and driving a car. Much cheaper. Yes, the company says this, but I didn’t think it was realistic yet.
Well, it is. At least for me.
I’ve been back in SF for a couple of months and have been wondering if I should buy a car. So, I compared my transportation expenses over the past two years. There are some obvious caveats, but here’s a quick break-down:
Car (August 2013-August 2014)
Apartment Parking Space: $350/month x 12 months = $4,200 [1]
Gas: 23 gallons x $3.75/gallon = $86.25, $86.25 x 52 weeks = $4,485 [2]
Insurance: $133 x 12 months = $1,596 [3]
That’s $10,281/year right there for just the basics, not factoring in normal servicing, repairs, car washes, other parking, tolls or tickets (and there were tickets). And of course, that’s not including the amortized cost for the purchase of the car in the first place. It’s just the bare annual minimum.
This also doesn’t include the additional Uber, taxi or public transportation fares I had throughout the year when I wasn’t driving — for example, after drinks or when traveling in other cities.
Uber (August 2014-August 2015)
Total cost: $4,655.79
That’s a dramatic difference in cost. But to be fair, I had to rent a car 3–4 times in the last year for an additional $1k or so combined. And of course, like the year before, this doesn’t factor in public transportation costs, etc.
Now obviously there are some significant caveats to my comparison. My cities and schedule changed in this time period (though the Uber-only year includes three months in SF). I could have driven a much more fuel efficient vehicle, taken public transportation down south to Sand Hill more often, found cheaper parking (though I’m not actually sure that would have been possible in SF), etc. This is not an exact science.
But if anything, I was traveling more miles in Europe and riding with Uber more frequently because it was dependable and familiar to me.
And that brings me to the part of the comparison that can’t be quantified: peace of mind. Owning a car — particularly in a city — can be stressful. There’s no fewer than a dozen startups in San Francisco trying to fix just the parking hassle (on-demand valets! driveway-share marketplaces! etc). Not having to deal with a car is a luxury — a cheaper one for me. Even when I commute down the peninsula, the combination of a train and Uber for last mile reach is vastly preferable to the hell that is the 101.
Uber has reached such high city density, geographic ubiquity and price diversity that it can truly be an economical replacement for car ownership for some people. There are dozens of factors that make the trade-off right for me, and that’s obviously not the case for everyone, everywhere (families are an obvious example, though Uber appears to be working on that). But it will increasingly be the right choice for more people as the company reaches even greater density and rolls out new services.
It’s worth doing the math for yourself.
***
[1] Apartment parking isn’t cheap in SF, I believe this is true in other condensed cities as well.
[2] The 2004 Toyota 4Runner has a 23 gallon tank with roughly 15–17 mile fuel efficiency. Pretty bad, but remember, this was an old car. My commute from home to KP in Menlo Park was 70 miles round trip and I’d go down to the office 2–3 times a week. The rest of the time I was commuting around the city or out of town on the weekends. I filled up my tank roughly every week and looking at a historical almanac for SF gas prices that year, $3.75/gallon seems about the average. San Francisco has the most expensive gas in California.
[3] My car insurance was $1,600/year, it probably would have been slightly less if I had a newer car.
[Disclosure: I’m an investor in Uber like literally thousands of other people. I believe it’s good business to invest in products and companies you love, if you can.]

Previously: Investment Partner at Kleiner Perkins, built products for people @Square & @Google. I'm told I talk fast.
How work, business and society face massive, technology-driven change. Curated by Tim O’Reilly, Steven Levy and Lauren Smiley, in conjunction with the Next: Economy Summit coming to San Francisco in November.
Whether on an app screen, a web browser, or a wearable watch face, design is one of the most important drivers of consumer engagement. From flat design to Material design, I analysed what trends have evolved, and share a few of my insights with you — what are these trends? Why are they beneficial to the user? And how are they created?
Let’s look at how flat design and Material design came into play and evolved to the trends we see today.
Instead of incorporating a wide array of gradients and shadows, shifting to a ‘flat design’ creates a lighter aesthetic in the app. This means using negative space — instead of gradients, shadows, etc. — can create a simpler interface, focusing only on having core information and removing design elements that are not productive as itself and to the user flow.
Lighter design removes distraction to help guide the user’s eye to meaningful content on the screen, enabling easier navigation while also providing a sleek, modern aesthetic to the brand itself.
Reducing the number of fonts on a screen can reveal the power of typography. Instead of using different typeface and leveraging different characteristics — e.g. italics, bold, semi-bold — and different font sizes can better differentiate discrete areas of content.
Embracing a singular typeface across an entire app drives consistency not only for branding, but also across channels — e.g. app, mobile site, website — thus optimising the mobile elements across the omnichannel experience. Also, users prefer the simplicity of having one typeface to scroll through in identifying relevant content.
While previously lines and dividers were used to clearly delineate specific sections or categories within a screen, adding these elements can result in dense, crowded interfaces. Straying away from lines, interfaces which leverage clustered blocks of content separated by spaces have the advantage of freeing up that space and establishing a clean look.
The removal of explicit lines and dividers provides a modern look that focuses on functionality; for example, images and/or fonts can be bigger, providing visual clarity and improved ease of use. Leveraging space instead of drawing lines helps to define different sections in a non-obtrusive manner.
As users’ preferences shift toward a simpler interface, usage of big fonts and striking colors get more common to make a certain data the center of focus. Highlighted data can vary according to target customers.
Leveraging increased font size and/or a pop of color draws the users’ attention to a particular area of the screen — without an obtrusive, heavy-handed push or command to do so. As a result, users can access information more quickly, providing an easier navigation and information-gathering experience.
Micro-interactions are small visual enhancements (for example — an animation, a sound etc.) that occur around a use case. These scenarios may include completing a transaction, favoriting an item, or prompting a pop-up message. These interactions are subtle, but they differentiate the product by pointing to the attention the right element.
These micro-interactions can be leveraged as a signal to prompt the user while accomplishing a task — e.g. adjusting a setting — creating a small piece of content like a pop-up message. Apps which have well-done micro-interactions considered easier, more fun, and more engaging by their users.
The usage of simpler color schemes became a trend after the introduction of flat design in 2013, which embraces clarity and simplicity. As a result, designers and users alike prefer the usage of smaller number of colors, aiming for a clean look.
Usage of color is essential in creating a certain mood, guiding the user’s area of focus, and communicating a brand. By using fewer colors, the brand identity can be reflected more clearly. In addition, users may prefer this aesthetic as it removes the distraction that too many colors can cause, and it better highlights key features, improving navigation through the app’s flow.
Previously, interfaces were centered around the principle of skeumorphism, a design principle that takes cues from original structures or objects (for example, digital calendar resembling a paper desk calendar, 3D ‘depth’ on app icons, the shutter click sound of a mobile phone). Now that flat design has shifted away from this principle, it opens up the opportunity to create depth in new ways. Primarily, using layers helps create this feeling of depth and dimension, creating a more ‘tangible’ experience.
An implication of flat design was the risk of being ‘too flat’ — with so much subtlety, how can the user navigate and engage, given their conditioning to a 3D physical (and previously digital) world? Layers provide the ability to show one item is on top of another by taking full advantage of the z-axis. Layering and increasing depth helps identify the relationship between different items, and draws attention to certain items.
Ghost buttons are transparent buttons, having no color fill. Their borders are very thin-lined, and the shape itself is basic — such as a rectangular or squared, with right angle or softened edges. Text in these buttons are simple and minimal.
These subtle buttons can grab the user’s attention while still seeming clean, trendy, and unobtrusive. It also allows for there to be a hierarchy of buttons on the screen — if there are different buttons on the screen — if there are different buttons in the same page, they may be designed and placed with prioritisation (e.g. ghost buttons for optional or intermediate steps). In some cases for material design, subtle shadows are used to help users perceive that hierarchy.
With integration of gyroscopes and motion sensors, consumer devices are able to detect movement. With this, interaction between user and the device moves beyond the click and extends real life gestures to the screen.
Users are intuitive about gestures. When asked how to delete an item, users tried to move the item out of the screen regardless of age, sex and gender. Enhances user experience with less taps and more scrolling, applications become more interactive by positioning the screen more than just a touch target.
Through software innovation, designers now have the ability to take advantage of controlling movement with their style sheets. Motion-based design elements can be seen in a variety of forms, including transitions, animations and even on texture to mimic 3D depth. The use of motions within the design helps users to engage with and internalise content, differentiating that element or data/object from others to highlight its importance.
Motions can draw user’s attention to a specific area — or help to distract from it. By showing a visual response, it can increase engagement, delighting the user with a ‘wow’ factor.
Instead of navigating through multiple pages to complete a single transaction, a single screen can include those intermediate steps and reduce the time and effort spent in app. For example, a form can automatically open or highlight the subsequent input area when the user completes the previous field.
Mobile users prefer to complete their transactions in an app easily and quickly while they are on-the-go. Designing the experience of the applications according to this insight minimizes the effort for the user and can increase the rate of conversion and/or frequency of app opens.
Design standards is the process of setting the visual language at the beginning of the project by determining standards such as colors, icons and global padding.
Setting the standards of the design helps to create consistency within the application and between different platforms. It minimizes possible errors while bringing the project into life and makes it easier to make modifications in the future.
A prototype is a preliminary or early working version of a product. The usage of prototypes can provide valuable insights into the functionality of design, highlighting potential changes needed in order to enhance the user experience without costing a major loss in designer time and effort.
By creating these low-cost ‘experiments’, prototyping can clarify the key components of the project, including the feature scope and requirements. It leaves essential time and resources to learn from the experiment and iterate on the product in an insight-driven process.
UX / Visual Designer at Monitise. Design Process Strategist. Public Speaker.
a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

I know he’s got at least some money, because he’s buying Grey Goose. People with money don’t buy cheap vodka, or cheap rum, or cheap whiskey. They invest in the good stuff, like Grey Goose. Three bottles of it.
His suit radiates “expensive”, the kind of expensive that involves several tailors and a high-end store in Manhattan. We aren’t in Manhattan, though. We’re in a fluorescent-lit Ralph’s in a suburban city that sleeps from 10 PM to 6 AM. Men who belong in Manhattan look out of place here.
“How are you doing tonight, sir?” The woman working the register asks pleasantly enough. My eyes are fixated on her hands, veins prominent through tired skin, as they scan bottle after bottle. His own fingers drum on the register wall impatiently. A gold band catches lights and gleams from his ring finger.
“Fine. Now, if you wouldn’t mind speeding up this damn process, I’ve got places to be.” He snaps, taking a black leather wallet out of his jacket pocket, a shiny credit card protruding from the top. It looks like it’s made of silver. He holds it gingerly between his index finger and middle finger, and now that his hands are busy, he begins tapping his foot on the linoleum. There is a faint, distinct rhythm, but I can’t place where I’ve heard it before.
“Yes, of course. I’m sorry.” She says softly, taken aback. The last of the bottles, a handle of Jack Daniel’s, rolls its way to the end of the conveyor belt. “I need your identification, please.”
The man heaves an audible sigh. “My ID… Do I appear to be someone underage? Excuse me, ma’am, for finding my way into your line. I thought cashiers were more competent than this.” He’s irritated, and I can see the blood rising from his neck to his temples. The only thing I can think of is the epinephrine that is coursing through his system, raising his heart rate and accelerating his breathing.
“It’s just store policy, sir,” her voice is small. She does not combat him once.
He pulls out his wallet again and nearly shoves his driver’s license in her face. “This is ridiculous,” he mutters.
The cashier is silent as she takes his credit card and slides it through the machine. She holds it in her left hand like it’s an explosive, ready to implode at the slightest, misguided touch. When the computer signifies that the transaction is complete and the receipt finally prints, he exhales loudly. He leaves the line with four bags of alcohol. I wonder how long those bottles will last him.
I shuffle my feet forward, in awe of the man’s audacity to be so outwardly rude. I glance up, noticing the cashier’s face for the first time. Her brown eyes look heavy, and there is discoloration around her neck, barely visible above the collar of the uniform polo. An amalgamation of black and blue and yellow mix together, in vague forms of fingerprints, marring the translucence of her skin. Time slows down and I swear I can see the fibrin forming the intricate meshwork to mend the broken capillaries. I should be more shocked by this sight. I should not be standing here complacent.
“How are you today, ma’am?” She asks, tone betraying defeat, as I watch her put the few cans of soup into a grocery bag. There’s a cut on the side of her right hand that has been hastily and poorly covered by a flimsy band aid that I did not see before. The wound appears to be somewhat old, darkened by days of healing. Thrombin to fibrinogen to fibrin. I wonder how often her body must endure this cycle of blood-clotting.
“Fine, thank you,” I say distractedly. Maybe it is because my mind is still on the Manhattan man, or because I am too caught up in breaking down biological reactions, or because I don’t want to think about the possibility of abuse, but I don’t ask “How are you” in return. The synapse of that thought is dead before it even had a chance to come to the forefront of my mind.
I pay for my groceries with old, crumpled bills and leave hurriedly with a bag in each hand. As soon as I’m out the door it dawns on me that I didn’t reciprocate the question. I slow down my pace and with each step, out the door, onto the pavement, then the asphalt, I feel strange. I didn’t bother to look at her name tag. I didn’t ask how she was... I didn’t ask how she was.
How many customers had she seen, but they had not seen her? How many days can we go through without taking the time to leave our own busy thoughts and comfort behind and extend basic courtesy to one another? Who was I but just another person who left that woman’s presence without acknowledging that she was worthy of a mere question? Perhaps that “How are you” was what she desperately needed in that moment, to have a voice, to feel valued, to feel human, to know that someone cares. I am no better than the man before me who had completely disrespected her. In a sense, I am worse; I have no alcohol or expensive suit to use as excuses, only my own innate selfishness and apathy.
The car is still parked as I sit in the driver’s seat, staring out the windshield at nothing in particular. Looking down at my own hands, I realize in my near 19 years of existence that they have not seen even half the scope of human suffering that is undeniably present in this world. I close them into fists and feel weak.
DNA cannot code for compassion. There is an underlying source of empathy, burying itself in the microscopic spaces between the sequences of A’s and T’s and C’s and G’s, that does not come from myself. I pray that the man in the suit finds wholeness in something far more lasting than the satisfaction of an empty bottle. I pray that the cashier is heard and finds solace in a source of comfort far greater than anything any human could ever provide. I pray that I may become someone who asks how others are doing before they even have the opportunity to ask me.
Thrombin to fibrinogen to fibrin. Mistake to consequence to learning.
These are the ways we heal and grow.
constantly seeking and yearning.
Here there is hope, humor, and help as you deepen your connection to others, yourself, and to your work.
70 years ago, there was no visual technology to broadcast the aftermath of the a-bomb dropped just 3 days before in Hiroshima. On August 9th 1945 at 11.02am, survivors like Shigemi Fukahori — aged 14 at the time — had no idea that they were also victims of a nuclear weapon dropped by a US B-29 plane.
“When I heard the explosion, I had no idea it was an atomic bomb,” Fukahori tells me as we meet in a back room in Urakawa Cathedral, where he is now a parishioner aged 84. “But it was so loud, the ground shook incredibly hard. The moment my body felt the ripples of the explosion, I knew that this was an attack on a scale none of us had ever experienced before.”
Fukuhori, like many others who survived the attack, did not turn to media in the immediate aftermath for information. “Back in those days, there was no TV or the internet so it was impossible to see what the damage looked like unless you were physically present where it happened,” he says. “Either way, we didn’t know the exact weapon dropped in Hiroshima just three days before; all we heard was that it fell victim to ‘a new kind of bomb’. The same phrase had been used on the radio with this attack on Nagasaki. But none of us had the time to process the science behind the attack; we were just shocked with what we saw on the ground.”
The attack on Nagasaki was an outcome of a plan overturned at the last minute by the US forces. Despite setting their sights onto Kokura, another city also in Kyushu prefecture, they switched their target to Nagasaki at the last minute. The sunny weather there was a better opportunity to maximise the nuclear technology; more exposure to heat meant the more damage was going to be done.
Fukuhori was inside a factory 3.4 km away from the epicentre, where he had taken a day off from a Christian summer school when the atomic bomb had dropped. “I survived the attack scarless precisely because I was inside a building in the shade, away from the sun,” he said. “The same applies to my father, who survived because he was working at a weapons factory, which could withstand any kind of attack. But I never found the bodies of my mother, my two brothers and two sisters who were within less than 1km of epicentre; the war had forced them to study at home, which like all homes were made out of wood.”
A few years after the attack, Fukahori left for Tokyo to pursue his studies in theology at university. It was only upon his return after completing his studies that he had learnt of the weapon and saw first hand how it had affected his community; Christians who were regular attendees of the Urakami Cathedral and lived in the area.
“As the men were away fighting when the attack happened, it was the women and children who lived in these who suffered most in the years to come,” he recalls. “Many of the women I know had developed Keloid scars as a result of the radiation from the bomb. Most of these women are now dead; when they were alive, they would not come out of the house as they felt judged for their appearance. Many also chose to remain single, as they were also afraid they would give birth to disabled children.”
70 years later, Urakawa cathedral projected a video on its newly reconstructed building to take audiences on a journey to retrace the series of events. “Because I am alive, I feel a sense of responsibility to continue living the message of peace,” he says. “As the head of a Virgin Mary statue survived the radiation with black scorched eyes, it’s become a symbol of those who endured the pain in years to come, piecing together what had happened to them. Nagasaki must be the last to go through this ordeal.”
Independent Journalist @motherboard @IndexCensorship ex-@AP Deputy Video News Editor. Human rights, arts & current affairs in digital era. @Cambridge_Uni alum
We publish informed perspectives on fringe topics and add outside narratives to perennial stories — voices worth hearing.

Pretty much every new app has the following problem: lots of people sign up but don’t stick around.
I frequently get asked what are benchmarks for retention after one day or one week. My answer tends to be the same for products in the early days:
Most people look too much at the “big data” and try to draw conclusions. In the early days of a product you have to talk to people. You need anecdotes much more than data. You could say The plural of anecdote is data.
To collect anecdotes, you have to talk to actual users. The best users to call are ones who can help you understand why they tried your product and what hooked them. I like to look for bouncebacks. Bouncebacks are users that have tried your product, bailed immediately and didn’t find it useful, came back to try again for some reason (at least 1 week later, or even better, 1 month later), and then got hooked.
The first step is to identify some bounceback users to call. Select users who you now consider highly active users, but had a specific gap between the time of first signup, and getting into habitual use. Look for different ranges of time between their first attempt to use the product, and when they returned and got hooked. Reach out to them and ask if they would be willing to chat with you about their experiences with your product. It is good to target having around 10 conversations. It is ok to divide the conversations up among different team members.
Ask the following four questions:
Try to find patterns in their answers to help you understand:
From these patterns, you can invest in revising your marketing and improving your product and onboarding. Revamp your messaging to focus more on the messages that brought people back and got them engaged. Update your product and onboarding to simplify whatever the users did the second time to get fully engaged.
A lot of this I learned from a project that Twitter ran with Adaptive Path in 2009 to start understanding our user growth challenges. @stop, @trammell and @ladylexy were instrumental in putting together that first set of user research and learnings that led to a lot of the growth work Twitter invested in over the subsequent years.
We learned from early users that many of them signed up for Twitter and thought it was just a megaphone. When they had nothing to say, and didn’t otherwise understand the product they bailed. When they later heard about how valuable Twitter could be if they followed their reverend or the food truck that broadcasts its location every day, they came back and tried again. But this second time they specifically sought out people to follow and had a good experience. We rapidly rebuilt our onboarding to focus much more on following and finding the right people which caused significant increases in how many users were activated after signing up. We revised our messaging to talk much more about finding and following the right people on Twitter instead of talking about tweeting and broadcasting.
I recommend doing this exercise of interviewing new bounceback users every 6 months. You’ll learn a lot about how to keep improving your adoption and activation.
Product Guy. I have worked on Twitter, Facebook Connect, Zazzle, LinkedIn, RealPlayer. Partner at Greylock, looking for crazy new things.



Airbnb, Disney World, Uber and Nest. They are all phenomenal products, which together are worth over $135 billion! Not only do their services deliver great value, their experiences are so well thought out and executed that their strategy goes unnoticed. In other words, their user experiences are invisible.
When designing the experience and interactions of a product, the most common question I ask myself is, “What is the least amount of work a user has to do, to achieve their desired outcome?”
Who actually enjoys fiddling around with dropdown menus, input forms and buttons? Sometimes as designers, we can be distracted by unnecessary noise when thinking through an experience. We bring emphasis to ‘beautifully designed forms’ because it’s the easier way out. One method I found quite effective is to think of the end goal and work backwards. This allows you to think beyond UI elements and really focus on what matters.
As designers it is important for us to think more holistically about a product and its experience. Polishing pixels is important but an experience which is so great that the design goes unnoticed is even better.
Jared Spool, an expert on the subjects of usability and design explains how Netflix sent out a survey asking their users what they liked best about their service. Customers replied with “Great selection of movies, recommendation tool was helpful and the overall service was great. However one thing they didn’t mention was the site was super functional, intuitive and well designed.

When booking a place on Airbnb, the real value is when the host wants to accommodate the guest who contacted them. In retrospect, Airbnb could have thousands of ‘available’ places to stay at but if no hosts wants to accommodate you — you’ll have a negative experience.
So what does Airbnb do to fast track you to the real value?
It’s invisible. Searching on Airbnb is quite simple and the forms are very minimal. When you make a search on Airbnb, behind the scenes they use machine learning to detect host preferences.
Without going too in depth, what this means is that they have created a machine learning model that learns host behaviours and preferences for accommodation requests. With this understanding, they can optimise a ‘guest’ search results with ‘hosts’ that are more likely to accept your request as a priority. This makes your experience on Airbnb more meaningful as you’re very likely to receive a quick and successful response from a host.
I am yet to experience an Airbnb host who does not respond to me.

Disney World invested $1billion on a magical wristband. Why? because it gives them the opportunity to create a frictionless, magical experience through invisible design.
It all begins when you book your ticket online and pick your favourite rides. Behind the scenes, they capture everything from you. With this data they are able to crunch your preferences then provide you a calculated itinerary that keeps you on route and stops you from zig zagging back and forth across the park.
This invisible experience also flows into your restaurant booking. When you make the reservation the restaurant host will already know your name. In fact, you can sit anywhere and your food will magically make its way to you! How? The restaurant is fitted out with advanced sensors which open up a whole new world of opportunities for them.
With Disney World knowing where you’re located in their magical theme park, this also opens up a ton of new opportunities to deliver an ever greater experience. Just imagine your children’s favourite characters come to them instead of them have weaving through the swarm of people.
As you can see, great design brings great experiences.
From a business standpoint, being able to optimise every itinerary will allow people to explore more of the park’s top attractions. When visitors spend less time in lines, they can do more and ultimately spend more!

Taxis on-demand.
Who ever thought one screen could disrupt an entire industry?
Waving down a taxi before the Uber days was a nightmare. Stranded on the busy streets on a cold winters morning at 4am in Sydney, is not a great experience.
The design of the Uber experience is phenomenal. From an interaction standpoint, Uber solves all of the consumers uncertainties within one screen.
On the opening of the app (with location services permitted), the user does not have to engage with any UI elements to experience the value of the product. This is a great example of industry leading design thinking. They’ve nailed “What is the least amount of work a user has to do, to achieve their desired outcome?” on the head.
As the app loads:
If you have noticed with the success of Uber, the entire concept of booking cabs has diminished. Uber doesn’t offer the ability to ‘book a cab for tomorrow’. They’ve disrupted and revolutionised the industry standards and expectations.

Current thermostats are expensive, complicated and inefficient. Tony Fadell saw this as a major problem, so he created Nest. As the designer of 18 generations of iPods and 3 generations of iPhones, he applied his learnings in creating a ‘Smart Thermostat’.
Most people don’t program their thermostats for many reasons — for me it’s because it’s too fiddly. The Nest team have come up with an experience so great, it’s literally invisible.
For the first 7 days of installation, the thermostat will learn your preferences and personalised schedule. Some features it accommodates include:
This is great because it’s all done behind the scenes. The only thing required from the user is to set the temperatures during the first week. There’s no more fiddling around with unnecessary UI elements. Hence why Nest was bought out by Google.
Great (invisible) design comes at a great cost.
As we endure technological advances and a better understanding of technology, data, user behaviours and expectations, these experiences become more and more achievable. That is why there has been a surge and uprise in Personal Assistant apps.

They’re all a stepping stone in becoming great experiences. They’re focused on delivering an experience where the ‘processing work’ happens behind the scenes. “As a consumer, why do I need to click through a form to tell you what I need? Is it because we’re still adapting old practices, or is it actually a better experience overall?”
I do believe some of these personal assistant apps are powered by manual work at the moment — but as these startups continue to capture more and more data, the opportunity to automate a lot of the manual work will become available. In the next 5 years, we are going to see technology become more integrated than ever, with experiences also becoming even more seamless. I am absolutely blown away by what the team over at Microsoft Cortana are doing!

I hope you’ve learnt a few things from this article and that you’re able to put these design thinking principles into practice. I challenge you, to start pushing yourself into exploring new ways of experiencing digital products. We’re in a digital age where lots of things are now possible. Don’t conform to patterns and trends, they don’t last.
I would love to hear some of the innovative experiences you’re exploring or have executed! Share them with me: innovation@mizko.net
Follow me on Twitter. Catch me on Facebook.

The first secret of design is … noticing:|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9uOMectkCCs
Disney’s $1 Billion Bet on a Magical Wristbandhttp://www.wired.com/2015/03/disney-magicband/
How Airbnb uses machine learning to detect host preferences:http://nerds.airbnb.com/host-preferences/
All about design
Hackerpreneur is a digital Magazine for iOS that explores the shifting landscape of work, creativity, design, startups and entrepreneurship.

It has been over three years since Steve Jobs died.
Since then, books have been written and movies have been made.
Each has celebrated his legacy and aimed to share the secrets he used to build the largest company in the world; things like attention to detail, attracting world-class talent and holding them to high standards.
We think we understand what caused his success.
We don’t.
We dismiss usable principles of success by labeling them as personality quirks.
What’s often missed is the paradoxical interplay of two of his seemingly opposite qualities; maniacal focus and insatiable curiosity. These weren’t just two random strengths. They may have been his most important as they helped lead to everything else.
Jobs’ curiosity fueled his passion and provided him with access to unique insights, skills, values, and world-class people who complemented his own skillset. Job’s focus brought those to bear in the world of personal electronics.
I don’t just say this as as someone who has devoured practically every article, interview, and book featuring him.
I say this as someone who has interviewed many of the world’s top network scientists on a quest to understand how networks create competitive advantage in business and careers.
The Simple Variable That Explains What Really Causes Career Success
In December of 2013, I interviewed one of the world’s top network scientists, Ron Burt. During it, he shared a chart that completely flipped my understanding of success. Here is a simplified version:
The bottom line? According to multiple, peer-reviewed studies, simply being in an open network instead of a closed one is the best predictor of career success.
In the chart, the further to the right you go toward a closed network, the more you repeatedly hear the same ideas, which reaffirm what you already believe. The further left you go toward an open network, the more you’re exposed to new ideas. People to the left are significantly more successful than those to the right.
In fact, the study shows that half of the predicted difference in career success (i.e., promotion, compensation, industry recognition) is due to this one variable.
Do you ever have moments where you hear something so compelling that you need to know more, yet so crazy that you’d have to let go of some of your core beliefs in order to accept the idea?
This was one of those moments for me. Never in all of the books I had read on self-help, career success, business, or Steve Jobs had I come across this idea.
I wondered, “How is it possible that the structure of one’s network could be such a powerful predictor for career success?
How A Closed Network Impacts Your Career
To understand the power of open networks, it’s important to understand their opposite.
Most people spend their careers in closed networks; networks of people who already know each other. People often stay in the same industry, the same religion, and the same political party. In a closed network, it’s easier to get things done because you’ve built up trust, and you know all the shorthand terms and unspoken rules. It’s comfortable because the group converges on the same ways of seeing the world that confirm your own.
To understand why people spend most of their time in closed networks, consider what happens when a group of random strangers is thrown together:
David Rock, the founder of the Neuroleadership Institute, the top organization helping leaders through neuroscience research, explains the process well:
By understanding this process, we can begin to understand why the world is the way it is. We understand why Democrats and Republicans can’t pass bills with obvious benefits to society. We understand why religions have gone to war over history. It helps us understand why we have bubbles, panics, and fads.
The Surprising Power And Pain Of Open Networks
People in open networks have unique challenges and opportunities. Because they’re part of multiple groups, they have unique relationships, experiences, and knowledge that other people in their groups don’t.
This is challenging in that it can lead to feeling like an outsider as a result of being misunderstood and under-appreciated because few people understand why you think the way you do. It is also challenging, because it requires assimilating different and conflicting perspectives into one worldview.
In one of my all-time favorite movies, The Matrix, the main character, Neo, is exposed to a completely new world. Once he is, he can’t go back. He’s an outsider in the new group, and he’s an outsider in his old life. He’s had an experience that everyone he’s ever met would never understand. This same phenomenon happens when we enter new worlds of people.
On the other hand, having an open network is a huge opportunity in a few ways:
The Revisionist Timeline Of Steve Jobs Success
As a result of pursuing his curiosity in different fields throughout his life, Steve Jobs developed an extremely unique perspective, skillset, and network; one that no one else in the computer industry had. He turned these unique advantages into the largest company in the world by having a razor sharp focus. Within Apple, he cut out people, products, and systems that weren’t world-class.
Many are quick to label parts of Steve Jobs’ life as the ‘lost’ or ‘wilderness’ years. However, when we view his life in retrospect, we see that his diversions were critical to his success.
What is labeled as the magic of Steve Jobs or the quirks of his character become replicable principles we can all follow.
It is from this vantage point that we can begin to understand the following quote from a Steve Jobs interview for Wired in 1995:
Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish.
Throughout human history, all societies including our own have created myths that share one common element, the hero’s journey.
Here’s what the journey looks like according to Joseph Campbell, the originator of the term…
Things are going great. You feel normal and fit in. Then something happens, and you change. You start to feel like an outsider in your own culture. You hide parts of yourself to fit in, but that doesn’t help. You feel called to leave and fulfill part of yourself, but that has a lot of uncertainty. So, you hesitate at first.
Finally, you take the plunge. You go through difficult times as you’re learning to navigate the new world. Finally, you overcome the challenges. Then, you go back to your old culture and have a huge impact because you share the unique insights you’ve learned.
The hero’s journey myth is embedded in everything from our society’s classic movies (i.e., Star Wars) to the heroes we glorify (i.e., Steve Jobs), because it hits on core parts of the human experience.
The field of network science shows us two things. (1) The hero’s journey is the blueprint for creating career success. (2) We can all be heroes. It just takes a little faith as you follow your heart and curiosity into unknown worlds. As Steve Jobs said, “You can’t connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. ”
— —
Other Related Article By Me
— —
I would love to hear your thoughts on how you build open networks! And if you enjoyed, please scroll down and click the “recommend” button.
— —
I write at MichaelDSimmons.com and am the co-founder of Empact. To receive more articles like this one, visit my blog.
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
For the majority of my child and adult life I never considered myself a “morning person.” I was a night owl. During my architecture school career I worked late through the night and slept in the mornings. When I started working at an Architecture firm, I conformed to getting up at 7am… but I didn’t enjoy it. I would get up as late as possible, skip breakfast, rush to work, and then feel like I was trying to catch up the rest of the day.
This type of routine will take its toll on your physical and mental well-being and majorly impact your productivity.
Now, I work from home for myself on various businesses, and I happily wake up around 5:30 am each day. Even on weekends, I’m usually up by 7 am. It could be that I’m enjoying the work I’m doing so much and am accountable to only myself; however, I think it has more to do with the fact that I’ve learned so much about how creating good habits and a morning routine are critical for lifetime success. A morning routine sets the tone for the whole day, and if you do each day right, you’ll do life right.
One of my goals for the beginning of this year was to get into a good morning routine in order to set myself up for the day. It started whenever I read The Miracle Morning by Hal Elrod in January. I knew that not having a good morning routine and feeling overwhelmed and disorganized were connected.
I needed to work smarter, not harder, and the first step was to create good habits.
The first thing I needed to do was quit the belief that I was a “night owl.”
Over the past several months I have been working on “habit stacking” to craft myself a good morning routine that works for me. Habit Stacking is a way to build a new habit into your life by stacking it on top of something you’re currently doing. For example, before I brush my teeth in the morning (current habit) I will meditate (new habit) for 3 minutes. I’ve discovered the personal ritual I have set up for myself has helped put me in the right mindset and offset any morning procrastination. Here’s a previous medium post I wrote about it.
Another great reason to create a morning ritual it is to avoid mental fatigue.
We only have a certain amount of energy and willpower when we wake up each morning, and it slowly gets drained away with decisions. This is especially true if you’re making hundreds of small decisions in the morning that mean nothing yet will affect how you make decisions for the remainder of the day. Try to have the first hour of your day vary as little as possible with a routine.
Avoiding mental fatigue is why Mark Zuckerberg wears the same thing everyday. Knowing exactly how the first 90 minutes of my day looks like is powerful, as it helps me feel in control and non-reactive, which in turn reduces anxiety and ensures I’m more productive throughout the day.

After 6–10 hours without any liquid, you need to rehydrate and wake yourself up. Drinking water is a great way to kickstart your metabolism, especially when it’s ice cold.
A little light stretching in the morning is all it takes to shake off grogginess and limber up for the day ahead. It only takes a few minutes but by doing basic stretches, here’s the ones I do. I use the 7 minute workout app.
When I first heard friends talk about taking cold showers in the morning, I thought they were nuts. Then one random day in mid-February I decided to try it. I’m not going to lie: it sucked. However, I felt so energized and alive after it that I’ve been doing it every day since. If you’re considering it, be prepared for discomfort at first, but also look forward to feeling more refreshed and alive than you have before. Also, it has numerous health benefits
Perhaps the most important part of my routine is clearing my mind so that I can gain focus for the day. I’m very new to meditation. I only added it to my daily life within the past 6 months.
I personally use the Muse headband because, as a beginner, I had trouble learning how to meditate and understand when my mind was drifting. The Muse detects my brain signals to let me know when my brain is calm and focused and when it is not. It is not essential for meditation. I have also heard great things about the app Headspace.
Since beginning the daily habit of meditation I have seen a big improvement in my focus, productivity, and stress levels for the rest of the day.
I’ve been doing bulletproof intermittent fasting since Oct./Nov. of last year, so I only drink BP Coffee in the morning. While the coffee is brewing, I use those few minutes to wash some dishes. No one could ever accuse me of being a “cleaner,” but I enjoy doing the dishes in the morning so I can think through my day. It also makes me feel like I have accomplished something already, which is a great way to start the day.
This 20 minutes of reading has been huge for me. Not only is it enjoyable, but reading books on mindset, personal growth, and business inspires me in the beginning of my day and gets the creative juices flowing. If you’re curious what I’m reading, you can see here.
This part of my morning routine was established more recently and is a creative process. It’s an activity of writing 750 words (around 3 pages) each morning. It’s not blogging or anything that I will ever release to the world. It’s a stream of consciousness of whatever is on my mind, essentially a brain dump on ideas for business, life, and other decisions. Whatever I want to clear my mind of, It gets my brain working and thinking more creatively.
Each morning I write down my goals. First, I write down a long-term goal that I’m working towards. I write this down each day to keep me mindful of my direction so that I don’t go off track. Then, I write down the day’s targets, which are what 3 things I need to accomplish to move me further toward my long-term goal. I usually have my 13-Week Roadmap planned ahead of time that has my goals broken down with a timeline. I’ll delve into this process in another post, but essentially it’s a planning structure so that I know what I should be working on for 3 months at a time. Interested in learning about this? Let me know.
I break down my day in 30 minute increments, enter any calls or appointments I have, and then schedule out my tasks for the day. I always put the most important (coincidentally usually the least enjoyable) first so that I ensure it gets done. I try to never book any meetings or appointments until late in the afternoon if I can help it because my mornings are my sacred hours of peak productivity.
Then I begin working.
I don’t look at my phone, email, facebook, or twitter until after I’ve completed that first big task of my day. I pause my inboxes the night before (using inbox pause) so that, in the morning, if I do need to send out any emails I can do so without being bombarded with any incoming mail. Remember, email is someone else’s request of your time. Prioritize your goals and tasks first before looking at email so you don’t go into reactive mode as opposed to proactive mode.
My morning routine takes just over an hour. I can’t stress enough to you the importance of a great morning routine, as it will set you up for a successful day — and life. With that said, what I do isn’t for everyone. I experimented with a few different things and figured out what worked for me. You should do the same. Soon you’ll know what things work for you, and you’ll enjoy starting your day.
I’d love to hear about your morning routine if you have one. What does the first hour of your day look like?

Cathryn Lavery is a serial entrepreneur dedicated to helping others become their Best Self.
Want to build a morning routine like hers? Use the Self Journal to structure your day and reach any goal faster. It’s live on Kickstarter now


Serial Entrepreneur — Founder of CalmTheHam.com & BestSelf.co
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

I’ve written and rewritten this blog in my head several times over the past few months. As many of you know, I have been recovering from anorexia since April. I was at an Ivy League school, a D-1 athlete and should have been living my dream. Nobody expected me to end up in the hospital with an eating disorder freshman year, especially me. Now that I have had an abundance of time to reflect on the past few years, I understand what precipitated my eating disorder and have gained a new perspective on the world around me as it relates to eating, health and body image.
I have always been a perfectionist in everything I do, pushing myself to my limit and beyond no matter what the endeavor, large or small. In high school I wanted to be a straight A student, a D-1 athlete and, sadly, more important than all, I wanted to be skinny. I followed rules from my parents, rubrics from my teachers, and directions from my coaches to the letter. So in my junior year of high school when my club gymnastics coach told me I needed to lose ten pounds, I was determined to do exactly as he said. At the time, like many girls my age, I was already having body image issues and confusing puberty with getting “fat”. Thinking I was doing what was needed, I began to throw up after dinner. It didn’t take long before I began purging twice a day but I convinced myself that I didn’t have a problem since I never binge ate and only ate “healthy” foods. I began constantly to compare my body to others. I followed fitness and health food accounts on Instagram and became obsessed with being as fit as possible. Despite how close I was to my friends and family, no one knew what was swirling inside my head. And I had absolutely no idea that I was suffering from anorexia.
By the time I got to college last fall, I decided I wanted to stop the purging and feel “normal” again. I focused instead on becoming even more fit. I began doing extra cardio daily in addition to my hours of gymnastics, and constantly felt like there was something more I could do. I gave into the “gluten free” fad and descended down a slippery slope of eliminating all the “bad” foods from my diet. I downloaded a calorie counter on my phone and I told myself If I was going to be healthy, I was going to be as healthy as possible. I mainly ate salads — and took the dressing off. I drank tons of water to fill myself up. I stopped putting milk in my coffee. My favorite foods — avocados, sushi, peanut butter, bread — became fear foods. I no longer ate carbs, and eventually even the calories in gum seemed to be too much for me. How ironic that my “healthy” lifestyle was nearly killing me.
As I began to get sicker, I pulled away from my friends and family. I obsessed over how I appeared in Instagram and Facebook photos. Around February, I began avoiding eating with people and I was constantly tired, unhappy and cold. My hair was falling out in clumps and my skin was dry and dead looking. I struggled to socialize because all I could think about was food and exercise. The way I looked and what I ate became the most important part of my life. As I deprived my body of nutrients, I deprived my brain (which is normally 60% fat), thus making rational decisions nearly impossible. I was able to convince myself and others that I didn’t have a problem by disguising my food restriction as self discipline. Nobody knew or noticed. I was competing for my team and earning straight A’s. I was even getting compliments on my appearance. By March, I had deemed almost all foods “bad” except egg whites and greens. I thought of myself as healthier than everyone around me. Little did I know that I had a resting heart rate of 30 and was at risk for cardiac arrest.
In April, the “gradual” weight loss abruptly became drastic. My kidneys were failing and my organs were shutting down. My body was deep in starvation mode. Finally I recognized how weak and sick I felt and I was scared. My mom was shocked by my Facebook pictures. Still, I didn’t connect my symptoms with my eating habits until my mom arrived on a red-eye, helped me navigate the healthcare system and I was admitted into the ICU. On April 15th, I began the toughest chapter of my life thus far: recovery.
I spent two and a half weeks in the hospital, much of it on strict bed-rest with continuous monitoring of my heart and other vitals, during the initial slow, steady, often painful, refeeding process. When my heart rate was finally stable, I was discharged and placed on a strict meal plan, implemented by my mother. Once the body has experienced starvation and the nearly fatal process of shutting down, even a small weight loss can trigger the whole process again, even many months after weight has been restored. Eating five or six meals a day is nearly impossible to do alone: recovery from anorexia requires the full support of family. I was able to finish those last five weeks of my freshman year because my mother prepared and served the six meals a day prescribed by my doctors. But I arrived home only to be hospitalized again for a week. Just the increased activity and slight diet change while packing up and flying home had sent my heart rate plunging again.
It was easier for me to be motivated to start eating again when I was in the hospital setting and so clearly sick. As I have gotten better, I have become more aware of how much of my daily life as a young woman, a college student, and an athlete, encourages disordered eating. As soon as I began recovery, I unfollowed all food and health accounts on Instagram and deleted my snapchat in order to quiet the noise about weight loss and fitness that surrounds so much of today’s media. I needed to stop seeing what other people were eating, or what they were doing for exercise or how they looked in their gym clothes. I just needed to get better.
After two hospitalizations, I really understand how dangerous it is to try and alter your own body. If I look frail and bony at age eighteen, how am I going to look when I’m 60? Or how about 80? Will I even make it to 80? The thought itself is scary. In order to stay healthy, I have to remember that good health is something that is continuous and cannot be compared to others. This is my one body; we don’t get “re-do’s” when it comes to our own genetics and it may sound crazy but when I was sick this thought didn’t occur to me. I only cared about changing my body in the immediate and how I looked in the moment. If I felt full, I was fat. If I was hungry, I was skinny and there was nothing in between. Everything about eating and my body image felt urgent and dire, like eating the yolk of an egg would suddenly cause my pants to tighten or that obesity was going to sneak up on me one hour after eating a scoop of ice cream. I never thought about the effect that trying to change my outward appearance had on my heart, kidneys and long-term health.
Now I cringe when I hear someone mention how they want to go “gluten free” to lose weight. Or how they want to go “ano” for two weeks to get a beach body. I struggle to walk into places like Panera Bread or Starbucks where they have calories plastered next to every item. They fuel the ideas that precipitate eating disorders: that some foods are “bad”, or that we are supposed to feel guilty after eating a calorically dense food or that we have to earn our foods before we eat them. Food is food and it is not something that needs to be earned. Our bodies need a balanced diet regardless of whether we exercised that day or not.
So, as many of my classmates and friends have travelled this summer, held prestigious internships or taken summer courses, I’ve been recovering. I have spent my summer in doctors’ offices and labs and therapy sessions week after week and it has been as exhausting and taxing as a full-time job. My hair has slowly stopped falling out, my skin has light in it again, and I’ve gotten stronger. Even though I have been recovering for almost four months now, I still have to carefully manage my intake and exercise to be sure that my heart rate and blood pressure don’t drop. It shocked me to learn that even after regaining the weight I lost, my body still has so much more healing to do. I will be working hard at my recovery for a long time.
As terrifying and hard as many moments of this process have been so far, the main thing I feel is relief. Rather than wishing to be skinny, I wish for happiness. Rather than admiring girls whose bones show, I admire girls who can eat foods they enjoy without anguish. I wish to be able to get an ice cream cone with my little nieces and nephew and not cry inside. I wish fully and mindfully to experience college and life, not just see how it makes me appear on Instagram. But most of all, I wish for health and I wish to never damage my body again.
Brown University ‘18, avocado and redwood tree loving, Public Health major. This is my (rocky) journey to a life free of Anorexia Nervosa 🌻
Home to some of the best articles on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.

1. If I don’t create, I won’t affect the world around me.
2. Writing is the minimum viable product of my life.
3. There’s no despair that can’t be held at bay with words.
4. When people ask what I do, I have something to point to.
5. Having a career and paying bills is treading water for me – writing gives me a purpose.
6. I have stories I need to tell and beliefs I need to share.
7. Writing can change lives, and there are lives that need to be changed.
8. If I don’t challenge myself, I will atrophy – without writing, my legacy would be a very well curated Netflix library.
9. My writing is my own roadmap – it helps me find my way.
10. I write to meet people and to connect with others who I might never have had any contact with otherwise.
11. Some might say sharing and creating the written word is the entire point of the Internet.
12. Because I fucking love the way simple letters look on a minimalist background.
13. Writing is the only career that has ever felt right to me. When I write I belong.
15. All my family write. And always have. It connects us all.
16. Writing enables me to discover things about myself that I never knew.
17. Right now, we are drafting the future of digital publishing – I wouldn’t trade my place in that for anything.
18. Writing is its own form of innovation.
19. Writing is a skill that can be applied to and is needed by every industry, technology and platform.
20. Being able to write is one of the greatest accomplishments of humanity.
21. My girlfriend likes writers ;)
22. Writing demonstrates more than just an ability to put words on a page – it shows dedication, project management and marketing. It can be a point of professional differentiation.
23. Writing can help me relax and breathe and take stock of my life.
24. People want and need great content, they’re reaching out for it and searching for it.
25. No matter how old I get, even when I’m too weak to do much else, I’ll be able to write.
26. It stops me from being bored in a way that TV can never quite match.
27. Because there are some incredible words out there that are fucking fun to write. Like floccinaucinihilipilification. I don’t even know what that means, but I love it.
28. My thoughts are my own and could never come the same way from anyone else. Because everyone is unique. That’s amazing.
29. Because it gives me something to do on the train.
30. I want people to one day look up to me the way I look up to the writers that I love and respect. I know that sounds egotistical, but I don’t care. It’s honest.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

One week ago, a man brought a gun into a movie theater in Lafayette, Louisiana at the showing of comedian and actress Amy Schumer’s new film Trainwreck. Below is an open letter I have written to her in response:
~
Dear Amy Schumer,
This week, #Aurora and #Lafayette were trending on Twitter at the same time; one tragedy was just closing in court and one was just beginning in a theater. All of this transpired on social media just as we marked the one month anniversary since a mass shooting in #Charleston — yes, that was a hashtag, too.
All of this may seem like it’s playing out on your computer — a safe world away from where you live and work in Hollywood. But as a woman, a daughter and sister, a national figure, and a role model, you have a real stake in gun violence happening all around you.
Your movie — which was so well-received, so brilliant, so you — will now forever have this shooting attached to it. You’ve been caught in the middle of our country’s terrifying, unending war with itself, our sick and twisted relationship with the gun lobby, which tells us we need guns for anyone, anywhere, anytime. Search your movie “Trainwreck” on Google and a scroll-down suggestion will now be “Trainwreck shooting.”
A showing of your film — an honest, unapologetic celebration of women’s rights to our bodies, decisions, and independence — was the place a middle-aged man who, “opposed to women having a say in anything,” chose to commit a mass shooting.
I know the guilt, the sadness, the hole in your heart you’re feeling. I know the crushing anxiety you have for Jillian Johnson and Mayci Breaux and their families. I know the sudden feeling that you are not safe anywhere anymore, the numbness that whisks through your limbs and makes you forget that you’re human and that you’re in control. I know all of this. Not because I was in your exact shoes, but because I own a different make of them.
2012 was the worst year of my life. It was the year America saw the shooting of Trayvon Martin, the shooting in Aurora, the shooting at the Sikh Temple in Wisconsin, the shooting of Jordan Davis, the shooting at the mall in Portland, and the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School.
My mother survived that last one.
Six of her colleagues — all women — were killed, as were 20 first-graders. After the shooting, I dedicated my life’s work to gun violence prevention, and what I noticed immediately was that women are taking the reins in the movement. From the voices of mothers who lost their children to those of daughters who lost their mothers. From the calls to action by young women on campuses to women who work and are raising children they want to protect, in communities of all types. Women have truly begun to lead the gun violence prevention movement — and they are winning.
Women are our teachers, our protectors, our shielders. Women weep in public and in private for the lives we’ve lost, and they’re not afraid to scream at the cameras and go toe-to-toe with monsters who perpetuate these crimes on the streets and in boardrooms. Women are very simply the ultimate moral base in our battles for peace and justice throughout the world.
Women also bear the brunt of the harassment and violence perpetrated against our movement. The hatred and trolling of women fighting for gun reform is specifically twisted to become gendered threats and attacks. They reference rape, “setting us in our place,” obeying men and shutting us up, and overall they simply exemplify the worst of a patriarchy obsessed with the symbol and purpose of guns.
Of course, these extremists are barely a fraction of gun owners in America. But this very vocal minority is very afraid because what we’re advocating is — in their minds — the ultimate emasculation. Women telling men to tone it down with their guns, showing them real data that proves guns don’t actually make them safer. They feel vulnerable and so they call us names to shame us. They use their arsenals and state-willed unregulated access to guns to threaten us.
In the past few months, you produced a fake commercial for an episode of your show that makes a striking point about gun accessibility and the idiocy of our country’s thought processes on issues disproportionately affecting our generation. After a young woman (you) must go through an array of people to get approval to use birth control, the pharmacist reluctantly gives her the pills. She walks away shocked and disgruntled. Then a boy, maybe 10 years old, comes to the front desk and asks for a gun. The pharmacist slings one across to him and says, “Here you go! And remember, it’s your right!”
You get it.
All of these problems — the disgusting comments and harassment we receive on Twitter and other social media platforms, the obsession of many mass shooters (see the Isla Vista case) with anti-feminism and anti-women ideals, the over-idolization of firearms and fetishization of what they stand for, and the easy access to guns all stem from the same group of core ideologies that we must work to shut down.
We must shut them down because every day in the United States, five women are murdered with a gun. Women in our country are 11 times more likely to be murdered with a gun than women in other high-income countries. And from 2001 through 2012, 6,410 women were murdered in the United States by an intimate partner using a gun — more than the total number of U.S. troops killed in action during the entirety of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars combined. Women of color are particularly disproportionately impacted by gun violence. These are mothers, daughters, sisters, our best friends.
This is the experience of women in a country overshadowed by rampant, targeted gun violence and fear and hatred of women by people who are armed. This is not freedom — at least not for women.
Amy Schumer, I and many other Millennials look up to you so much. You are our generation’s epitome of what it means to be a strong, powerful, self-aware champion for the experiences and truths of being a woman and an American today. I admire your unapologetic, unwavering stature and your ability to laugh at yourself while actually pinning the joke on the audience to address often uncomfortable truths. In fact, I have nearly memorized the very end of the speech you gave at the Ms. Gala award ceremony. You said:
“I am a woman with thoughts and questions and shit to say. I say if I’m beautiful. I say if I’m strong. You will not determine my story — I will. I will speak… and I will never apologize to the frightened millions who resent that they never had it in them to do it. I stand here and I am amazing, for you. Not because of you… I am myself. And I am all of you…”
I know deep down that the tweet you sent after the shooting was not all that you’ve got. And we need your voice in this movement. We need your help.
Join your colleagues Sarah Silverman and Kristen Schaal. Join our movement. Write an op-ed. Support an organization. Demand change. Be a voice for our generation and for women — two groups who make up most of the victims of the gun violence in our country.
As you said and as I’ve learned, what truly matters in life is how you decide to write your own story. And in doing so, don’t apologize to the frightened millions who resent that they never had it in them to do it. Instead, show them it can be done.
Daughter of Sandy Hook survivor, student activist for safer communities, gun violence prevention advocate. #Fight4AFuture #Fight4The33 #NotOneMore
humandevelopmentgroup.org

Forget overpriced schools, long days in a crowded classroom, and pitifully poor results. These websites and apps cover myriads of science, art, and technology topics. They will teach you practically anything, from making hummus to building apps in node.js, most of them for free. There is absolutely no excuse for you not to master a new skill, expand your knowledge, or eventually boost your career. You can learn interactively at your own pace and in the comfort of your own home. It’s hard to imagine how much easier it can possibly be. Honestly, what are you waiting for?




edX — Take online courses from the world’s best universities.
Coursera — Take the world’s best courses, online, for free.
Coursmos — Take a micro-course anytime you want, on any device.
Highbrow — Get bite-sized daily courses to your inbox.
Skillshare — Online classes and projects that unlock your creativity.
Curious — Grow your skills with online video lessons.
lynda.com — Learn technology, creative and business skills.
CreativeLive — Take free creative classes from the world’s top experts.
Udemy — Learn real world skills online.




Codecademy — Learn to code interactively, for free.
Stuk.io — Learn how to code from scratch.
Udacity — Earn a Nanodegree recognized by industry leaders.
Platzi — Live streaming classes on design, marketing and code.
Learnable — The best way to learn web development.
Code School — Learn to code by doing.
Thinkful — Advance your career with 1-on-1 mentorship.
Code.org — Start learning today with easy tutorials.
BaseRails — Master Ruby on Rails and other web technologies.
Treehouse — Learn HTML, CSS, iPhone apps & more.
One Month — Learn to code and build web applications in one month.
Dash — Learn to make awesome websites.




DataCamp — Online R tutorials and data science courses.
DataQuest — Learn data science in your browser.
DataMonkey — Develop your analytical skills in a simple, yet fun way.




Duolingo — Learn a language for free.
Lingvist — Learn a language in 200 hours.
Busuu — The free language learning community.
Memrise — Use flashcards to learn vocabulary.




TED-Ed — Find carefully curated educational videos
Khan Academy — Access an extensive library of interactive content.
Guides.co — Search the largest collection of online guides.
Squareknot — Browse beautiful, step-by-step guides.
Learnist — Learn from expertly curated web, print and video content.
Prismatic — Learn interesting things based on social recommendation.




Chesscademy — Learn how to play chess for free.
Pianu — A new way to learn piano online, interactively.
Yousician— Your personal guitar tutor for the digital age.

UPDATE: Full list including the best of your suggestions can be also found here.

Written by @kristynazdot, founder and CEO of maqtoob.com — app discovery platform for inspiring entrepreneurs. At the moment, it features 1,500+ handpicked tools for startups, small businesses, and freelancers.
and she was that girl who wanted to be happy | CEO @maqtoobtools
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
I never in my life thought I would be writing an article like this.
As many people know I am a strong supporter of AirBNB. Over the last 2+ years, I have hosted over 700 guests in my house and been an ambassador to AirBNB in so many ways, from presenting at a dozen local events educating new hosts, helping new guests become familiar with the platform, writing articles, going on podcasts, running TravelersChat, a Slack community for AirBNB hosts and currently developing a small SaaS app to help hosts. This year I was to speak at the AirBNB Open in Paris, my trip was being paid for by AirBNB. (airfare & accommodation). That’s why the past few days events are so surprising to me.
I wrote this throughout the last few days as this all happened. I wanted to give AirBNB a chance to correct it or give me a real answer before I hit publish. Since they have fallen silent I feel this is my last option to bring attention to this.
9:25 AM, August 14th, 2015
My phone rings with a San Francisco number, the person asked for me by name and said he was calling from AirBNB. I was a little tired, I had woken up at 6:30 AM to let some arriving guests in. But I perked up out of my bed, thinking it must be something about AirBNB Open coming in November. Then the person on the other end of the phone said…
The monotone voice continued to read a short script, telling me my account will be terminated on August 15th. I repeatedly asked why, the voice simply said they would follow up with an email. I was in complete shock, my brain was racing everywhere and I literally started trembling. What the heck is going on?
This is the vague email I received from them minutes after the call.
I have replied three times to the email. I got back a single nearly identical reply with no reason as to their actions.
9:30 AM, August 14th, 2015
I immediately called the country manager for AirBNB. She couldn’t tell me anything, saying that AirBNB HQ didn’t tell her the reason, just that she was aware of it a few days ago and she “fought” for me.
I logged into my account and started looking around. I noticed they had already started canceling reservations and credited my account for the $2,374. Which is just under 50% of future earnings, probably because my cancelation policy is set to strict.
I am absolutely crushed. I have no idea what I could have possibly done wrong. They will not even tell me. I have given so much to the AirBNB community.
My account is to be terminated on August 15th, but I still have to honor guests until next week. Am I even covered under AirBNB’s insurance since they canceled my account & liability?
I have already received multiple emails from guests that were to stay at my place asking why I canceled them. Throughout the day, I replied to them all like this:
I have no idea, no explanation, I feel bad for the guests that were looking forward to a smooth stay on their vacation and now have to deal with this at the last minute.
2:01 PM, August 14th, 2015
I decided to email all three of the founders directly. So far I have not received a response.
This is a letter I sent to the AirBNB founders.
3:16 PM, August 14th, 2015
After I sent this email, I also got a call from my country manager again, she gave me a specific email address to write to. The “Trust & Safety Department”. I sent basically the same email as above.
So far the emails have been opened and read over 350 times, from multiple places around the world. Who knows who these email addresses really go to.
3:46 PM, August 14th, 2015
After looking around on my account trying to see what is going on I see that an iPhone has been logging in all over the USA for 2 months. I have never left Bangkok. I immediately change my password and log out all the sessions on the AirBNB website. I also sent an email to the country manager with the screenshot.
The country manager replied saying she cannot provide any details and I should email another person from now on.
I sent the same email to that new person and also the above screenshot. That person has read the email but never replied.
6:22 PM, August 14th, 2015
The country manager calls me and asks me to coffee at 7:30 PM, and sent an email to me to confirm the meeting.
I go to the coffee shop where she arrives with another person from AirBNB Singapore office. He has just heard about my termination a few hours before. He told me that one of the things that he wanted to do in Thailand was meet me because I am such a huge supporter of AirBNB.
The meeting was basically them telling me they are just as shocked as I am and that they have no clue of what’s going on. We talked about the situation, the whole time my mind is swirling. They offered to buy me dinner, I got an ice tea, I couldn’t eat. After about 30 minutes, I decided to leave. They said they would continue to try and get to the bottom of this. We hugged, said our goodbyes and parted ways, me feeling like I have lost a good friend in addition to my AirBNB hosting job. I just felt sick and no further along than before.
4:26 PM, August 15th, 2015
I received an email that the guest who was to check-in on Monday no longer needs accommodation and the inquiry is now closed. It wasn’t an inquiry but a full booking. I logged into my AirBNB account and see the other guests that were to arrive are now canceled and the funds no longer show as future payouts, not even for 50%. One more guest that is checking on August 15th is still showing as a reservation.
Tell you what, my last guest is going to be treated like royalty.
9:06 PM, August 15th, 2015
I decided to send another message to the founders.
10:45 PM, August 15th, 2015
I greeted my final guests into my home, who would be here for two days, leaving on Monday. Meeting them just outside as the taxi dropped them off. We said our hellos and went inside. I showed them how the house’s electronic door & lighting works. As they said hellos to my cats I carried their bag up to their room. I answered a few questions of where things were and how to get around in Bangkok. Making sure they were all settled in I went in my bedroom to get some rest.
8:36 AM, August 16th, 2015
A guest thats been with me for five days checks out while I am still sleeping. They send me an SMS saying thanks for the enjoyable stay.
10:59 PM, August 16th, 2015
I finally received a reply from one of the Founders. Made me feel like something is moving forward, otherwise why reply at all. Immediately after receiving this another email came in from a Michelle said one-word “Reviewing”.

10:00 AM, August 16th, 2015
My last ever guest leaves the house. For the first time my house feels really big and empty.
6:50 PM, August 17th, 2015
Hoping things would be getting fixed now. I decided to leave my reply until Monday evening.
I also sent a quick email to Michelle.
10:50 AM, August 18th, 2015
Still no reply from Michelle, so I sent my a last follow up email.

I have received no quality replies from AirBNB. Not only have I been kicked out of a community I loved, promoted and cared for, but I have lost a substantial portion amount of my monthly income that I depended on.
This very much saddens me, since I have no idea what the reason is, I can only speculate. I have spent hours going over everything & anything in my head, I have drawn a complete blank. Was a guest not happy? Did another host report my account for some reason?
If it was a guest that reported me for something, I would have thought I would be able to correct it. I treat every guest with the utmost respect and dignity, so a complaint like from a guest seems unlikely.
What in the world could I have possibly done to deserve such a drastic move on AirBNB’s part?
If it is so severe to terminate my account, why let more guests stay at my house after my termination date?
I thought the sharing economy was about just that: sharing, transparency and making the world better collectively?
I poured a great deal of myself & time into supporting AirBNB. I have no idea what steps I should take next, this is completely baffling to me. I still feel this is a horrible mistake, total misunderstanding or misinterpreted policy. Surely this was not the company Brian and Joe set out to build when they could barely pay their rent.
If you found any value in this, it would be great of you to scroll down and hit that “Recommend” button. Also “Follow” me to stay updated.

Hi, my name is Kelly Kampen, founder of Dojo, a streetwear company with a mission. Great threads & giving back: 10% of every purchase goes to causes and charities all over the world. I also do Business Development for Oozou an awesome Ruby on Rails development agency. Coming to Bangkok? Stay at my place.Want to talk? Drop me a line at kelly<at>do/dot/jo
Entrepreneur, LifeHacker, AirBNB Superhost, Founder of @DojoThreads Dojo Threads & Gear http://do.jo, Biz Dev @Oozou a Ruby on Rails Agency http://oozou.com
This is my adventrues and thoughts on being an AirBNB Superhost
Here are the lessons I learned building a company to 500 people and $7B in transactions while raising $125M along the way.
I love reading blogs by founders who try to give back and share what they’ve learned building their companies, so today I’ll try and do the same.
When I look back over the last 15 years building 4 different companies (most recently Bigcommerce), here are some things I’d do different if I was to start another company, as well as a few things I wouldn’t change.
If you’re just getting started, keep in mind that it’s at least a 7–10 year journey, so when the going gets tough I found it can be useful to get some perspective from other founders who have gone down the same path.
Stay focused, be positive and know that even when you “get big” it’s still a roller coaster of ups, downs, highs, lows, fun and fu*ks. That’s why having a big, compelling vision and building a great team around you is so important.
Here’s my list. I hope you find it useful.
Things I’d do differently
Things I’d do again
Read more posts like this at my personal blog, BlogMitch.com or follow me on Twitter @mitchellharper
I like building, advising and investing in software companies. Most recently @Bigcommerce co-founder. I also blog at BlogMitch.com
Earlier this week, an interview with the actor Cara Delevingne made the rounds online. In it, the anchors of “Good Day Sacramento” refer to her as “Carla” and then ask her whether she read the novel Paper Towns. (She stars in the film adaptation.)
The interview goes downhill from there, with the interviewers suggesting that she is tired, and that she is not adequately excited about the opportunity to be on Good Day Sacramento, which is the #1 morning show in literally all of Sacramento, and then they tell her to take a nap and cut the interview short.
I am friends with Cara, and the author of the book in question. I spent more than a month with her on tour in Europe and the U.S., and I watched as again and again, she was asked this question. Cara has read the book (multiple times), but the question is annoying — not least because her male costar, Nat Wolff, was almost always asked when he’d read the book, while Cara was almost always asked if she’d read it.
In the past two months, I’ve done something like 300 on-camera interviews. As you get asked the same questions again and again, you develop rote responses as a way of protecting yourself. The rote responses are true — the cast really was like a family; we really are all still friends — but in the repetition, the answers start to feel less and less honest.
For example, I was asked in most interviews how involved I was in the film, and I told the truth, which is that I did basically nothing and sat around all day eating Cheetos and telling everyone they were doing a good job. And then Nat would jump in and say, “John’s being modest. His understanding of the story and characters were vital to us.” But because we were reciting lines more than answering questions, the answer started to feel dishonest to me. At one point between interviews, I said to Nat, “I can’t remember if I even like Cheetos.” And he said, “That’s okay, man. I can’t remember if your understanding of the story was vital to us.”
Look, these are obviously the first worldiest of first world problems, but the whole process of commodifying personhood to sell movie tickets is inherently dehumanizing. The TV people want some part of you, and in exchange for it, they will put the name of your movie on TV. But in that process, you do lose something of your self. (For the record, I don’t get the feeling that the journalists asking the same questions over and over particularly savor the experience, either. But they need their sit-down interview, and we need our publicity, and so the wheel spins on.)
There are bigger problems in the world — in fact, almost every problem in the world is bigger — but if people are going to pay attention to these junket interviews and criticize Cara for responding flippantly to a stupid question, I think context might be helpful.
I was lucky to share most of my interviews with Nat, one of my closest and most trusted friends, and to learn from him how to deal with uncomfortable questions. (For instance, when asked is X a good kisser, or is X is a better kisser than Y, Nat gently explains that he doesn’t answer questions about kissing, because the women he works with should be talked about for their performances in the film not for their kissing.) But I never really got good at junketry. I just sort of gave up.
Like, there’s a line in the beginning of the novel: “Everyone gets a miracle.” The male narrator of the story believes his miracle is Margo Roth Spiegelman, the character Cara plays in the movie. Later in the book, the boy realizes that Margo is not a miracle, that she is just a person, and that his imagining her as a miracle has been terribly hurtful to them both. But still, I was asked over a hundred times, “Who’s your miracle?” At first, I tried to fight it, tried to argue that we must see people as people, that we must learn to imagine them complexly instead of idealizing them, that the romantic male gaze is limiting and destructive to women. That’s the whole point of the story to me.
But eventually, I just started to say, “My miracle is my wife.” (And then Nat would deadpan, “My miracle is also John’s wife. She’s great.”) In the end, rather than fight, I stuck to the script.
Cara, however, refuses to stick to the script. She refuses to indulge lazy questions and refuses to turn herself into an automaton to get through long days of junketry. I don’t find that behavior entitled or haughty. I find it admirable. Cara Delevingne doesn’t exist to feed your narrative or your news feed — and that’s precisely why she’s so fucking interesting.
I write books, including Looking for Alaska and The Fault in Our Stars. (Books are like tweets, except longer.) I also make videos with my brother.
Eu particularmente estou um pouco cansada de ler tantos textos falando mal da minha geração. Tenho vinte e poucos, sou parte da geração Y, millennials, ou sei lá qual é o nome mais hype que estão atribuindo no momento. Tento compreender isso como aquele fenômeno de que toda geração acha que é melhor do que a próxima, mas penso que certos estereótipos que estão sendo criados não valem a pena.
Rolam por aí ideias de que a nossa geração é preguiçosa, de que a gente quer conquistar tudo sem trabalhar duro por isso, de que achamos que somos especiais, e finalmente a mais esquista de todas: a de que não sabemos nos relacionar com as pessoas. Somos superficiais, interesseiros, falta amor. Por causa do Tinder, do Facebook, do Twitter, do botão unfriend e das altas taxas de divórcios.
Então vou dividir com o mundo os meus vinte centavos sobre o assunto: o grande problema é que a gente sabe se relacionar de uma forma mais livre, menos dramática e com menos firulas do que as gerações anteriores. E vou explicar por quê: nós estamos quebrando protocolos sociais.
Sabe aquele seu Tio Francis que despreza seu sonho de trabalhar com desenvolvimento de videogames e sempre que tem a chance fala mal do seu cabelo? Então, ao contrário do que dizem seus outros parentes, Tio Francis não te ama. Esse não é o jeitinho dele de demonstrar afeto. Ele não fala essas coisas porque se preocupa com o seu futuro. Tio Francis é apenas um escroto. Ele gosta de te colocar pra baixo.
Os nossos pais, tios e avós tem o costume de dar muita corda pro Tio Francis, tanto o seu, quanto os Tios Francis individuais de cada um deles. Mandam felicidades no aniversário, fazem reuniões de família para visitá-lo, montam grupo no WhatsApp pra compartilhar umas piadas sem graça e trocadilhos infames feitos com emojis. Essa relação com o Tio Francis, que só traz amargura pra sua vida (seja na forma de reprovação da sua profissão, de desprezo pela sua escolha religiosa ou orientação sexual, de comentários infelizes a respeito da pessoa que você ama) é empurrada com a barriga pra manter aparências e status quo.
E quem se fode nessa equação? Vocezinha(o), que tem que manter na sua vida relações horrorosas baseadas numa eterna punheta social por algum motivo bizarro, como para não machucar os sentimentos da Vovó Matilda, que é mãe do Tio Francis. Ou porque vai ficar chato pro seu irmão, que trabalha na firma dele. Pra quem não sacou até agora, Tio Francis é uma metáfora pra qualquer amigo, “primo de consideração”, parente, namorado ou colega de trabalho. Às vezes, Tio Francis é aquele cara que emprestou uma grana pro seu pai quando ele tava falido. Outras, ele é aquele primo que é racista e homofóbico, mas-é-um-amor-de-pessoa.
E aí que tá: as pessoas da nossa geração não estão dispostas a participar disso. A gente tá de saco cheio de preservar relações tóxicas por causa dos pudores ou pendências de outrem. Nós cortamos o laço mesmo, porque a gente não precisa disso pra viver. Não vamos telefonar, não vamos na festinha de aniversário e com alegria perderemos aquela oportunidade única de visitar o Tio Francis. Não queremos casamentos falidos pra manter aparências, amizades sanguessugas, relações familiares que te consomem e te fazem sentir a criatura mais inútil do planeta. Precisamos, sim, de gente que nos ama, que nos ampara, que aceita as nossas maluquices, ambições e júbilo ao compartilhar um post de gatinhos vestidos como personagens de Game of Thrones.
Aquele papo de que relacionamentos exigem sacrifícios, de que o amor dói mesmo, que relações são difíceis e exigentes, pra gente não tá mais colando. O que é querido, o que eu prezo e quero perto de mim, não é pra machucar. Não é pra doer nem pra me fazer sofrer, é pra ser gostoso, é pra dar aconchego, harmonia e tesão. A gente curte o amor-pássaro do Rubem Alves, que é livre para voar, mas daí pra ele cagar periodicamente na nossa cabeça já não dá.
As nossas relações, pra quem vem de outro background (que carrega consigo outros costumes e hábitos), podem parecer vazias e apenas virtuais, mas não são. Nós encontramos pessoas queridas com tanta frequência como se fazia antigamente? Talvez sim, talvez não. Eu vejo meus amigos mais próximos uma vez por semana. Outros, nunca vi pessoalmente, conheço só pela internet. O que posso dizer é que esses laços são muito intensamente vividos e aproveitados; o nosso tempo (que é raro, porque a gente trabalha pra cacete num sistema falsamente meritocrático e contraprodutivo inventado por pessoas como o Tio Francis) é gasto naquilo que realmente nos interessa e com pessoas que de fato nos fazem sentir bem.
A gente também não se sente culpado por ter relações curtas. Qual o problema de transar com aquele cara do Tinder e nunca mais ligar, se vocês só queriam sexo mesmo? Ou aquela amizade de verão maravilhosa, que foi boa enquanto durou? Pra que tentar ficar achando significado e profundidade em lugares que não precisam disso? A gente já superou o carpe diem, o neoqeav, o nada-acontece-por-acaso e estamos em paz com a noção de que relações humanas não duram — e nem precisam durar — para sempre. E isso não significa que somos frios, afinal a gente faz vaquinha virtual pra financiar o projeto artístico, intercâmbio e cirurgia do cachorro de gente que nem conhecemos.
Portanto, caros antecessores e precedentes, acho legal avaliar e compreender que fazer as coisas de um jeito diferente do de vocês (e isso vale pra relações humanas, formação, empregos e modus operandi no geral) não significa fazer errado. Pode ser que a gente queira abraçar o mundo, salvar todos os golfinhos e criar o milésimo grupo de apoio para algum problema (sério, vocês já viram quantos a gente faz?). Mas talvez a motivação pra falar tão mal da nossa geração seja, bem lá no fundo, o desejo de ter a nossa fluidez.
Formada em publicidade e ainda não sabe o que fazer com isso.
Some years ago, right after we caught our breath from the financial crisis, I took my then-young-teenaged son to dinner to celebrate the end of the school year. He got to choose the restaurant; naturally, he chose a steak house.
As we were being seated, I recognized Dick Fuld. The Dick Fuld. Former CEO of Lehman Brothers, whom I had covered as a research analyst at Bernstein. I stopped, said hello, met his daughter, and introduced my son.
As we walked to our table, I thought, “Great. A teaching moment.”
When we sat, I said, “Honey, that was Dick Fuld and he…”
My son cut me off…with energy. “You don’t have to tell me who Dick Fuld is. I know who Dick Fuld is! He shouldn’t be at dinner; he should be in jail!!” He went on and on and on…..about the financial crisis, about the collapse of Lehman Brothers, about his views on greed on Wall Street. I kid you not. These were not topics we were discussing at home, though we had certainly been living the financial crisis. I thought he was too young to “get it” or have any interest.
And, let’s just say, his views on Wall Street were not positive.
Uh-oh, I thought.
I said to him, “Honey, you know I work on Wall Street, don’t you?”
His reply: “I know. I Googled you. You’re one of the good guys.”
Whew!
Fast forward to this summer. My daughter is interning for me: she’s doing a bit of research, grabbing coffee for the team, watching us build product. We’re all in an office the size of a larger-than-average broom closet: one in which I can’t get out of my chair without ramming the back of our lead designer.
At one point, as we were heading home one day, I said to her, “Funny, isn’t it? I used to have an office many times the size of this for just me, I had a driver, I had a jet, I had fresh-baked cookies.”
Her response: “So what? Sure, the money’s not as good, but look at how much happier you are, Mom, than in your last job. You’re creating something and you’re trying to make a difference in the lives of women.”
I promise you, I’m not making this up. Not a word of it. I was floored.
I’ve written about the handful of smart things I did as working mom. One thought to add: Why should we work as though our children are watching?
Because they are.
Even if we don’t think they are, they are.
Sallie Krawcheck is the Chair of Ellevate Network and Ellevate Asset Management. Ellevate Network is a professional woman’s network, operating across industries and around the world. Both businesses are committed to the full economic and financial engagement of women.
Originally published at www.linkedin.com on August 3, 2015.
Ellevate Network, Ellevate Asset Management...past head of Merrill Lynch & Smith Barney ....past research analyst.....mom....crazed UNC basketball fan
Sharing our ideas and experiences
According to the Harvard Business Review, 41% of women working in tech eventually end up leaving the field (compared to just 17% of men), and I can understand why…
I first learned to code at age 16, and am now in my 30s. I have a math PhD from Duke. I still remember my pride in a “knight’s tour” algorithm that I wrote in C++ in high school; the awesome mind warp of an interpreter that can interpret itself (a Scheme course my first semester of college); my fascination with numerous types of matrix factorizations in C in grad school; and my excitement about relational databases and web scrapers in my first real job.
Over a decade after I first learned to program, I still loved algorithms, but felt alienated and depressed by tech culture. While at a company that was a particularly poor culture fit, I was so unhappy that I hired a career counselor to discuss alternative career paths. Leaving tech would have been devastating, but staying was tough.
I’m not the stereotypical male programmer in his early 20s looking to “work hard, play hard”. I do work hard, but I’d rather wake up early than stay up late, and I was already thinking ahead to when my husband and I would need to coordinate our schedules with daycare drop-offs and pick-ups. Kegerators and ping pong tables don’t appeal to me. I’m not aggressive enough to thrive in a combative work environment. Talking to other female friends working in tech, I know that I’m not alone in my frustrations.
When researcher Kieran Snyder interviewed 716 women who left tech after an average tenure of 7 years, almost all of them said they liked the work itself, but cited discriminatory environments as their main reason for leaving. In NSF-funded research, Nadya Fouad surveyed 5,300 women who had earned engineering degrees (of all types) over the last 50 years, and only 38% of them are still working as engineers. Fouad summarized her findings on why they leave with “It’s the climate, stupid!”
This is a huge, unnecessary, and expensive loss of talent in a field facing a supposed talent shortage. Given that tech is currently one of the major drivers of the US economy, this impacts everyone. Any tech company struggling to hire and retain as many employees as they need should particularly care about addressing this problem.

Nobody wants to think of themselves as being sexist. However, a number of studies have shown that identical job applications or resumes are evaluated differently based on whether they are labeled with a male or female name. When men and women read identical scripts containing entrepreneurial pitches or salary negotiations, they are evaluated differently. Both men and women have been shown to have these biases. These biases occur unconsciously and without intention or malice.
Here is a sampling of just a few of the studies on unconscious gender bias:
Most concerningly, a study from Yale researchers shows that perceiving yourself as objective is actually correlated with showing even more bias. The mere desire to not be biased is not enough to overcome decades of cultural conditioning and can even lend more credence to post-hoc justifications. Acknowledging that you have biases that conflict with your values does not make you a bad person. It’s a natural result of our culture. The important thing is to find ways to eliminate them. Blindly believing your company is a meritocracy not only does not make it so, but will actually make it even harder to address implicit bias.
Bias is typically justified post-hoc. Our initial subconscious impression of the female applicant is negative, and then we find logical reasons to justify it. For instance, in the above study by Yale researchers if the male applicant for police chief had more street smarts and the female applicant had more formal education, evaluators decided that street smarts were the most important trait, and if the names were reversed, evaluators decided that formal education was the most important trait.

Because of the high attrition rate for women working in tech, teaching more girls and women to code is not enough to solve this problem. Because of the above well-documented differences in how men and women are perceived, training women to negotiate better and be more assertive is also not enough to solve this problem. Female voices are perceived as less logical and less persuasive than male voices. Women are perceived negatively for being too assertive. If tech culture is going to change, everyone needs to change, especially men and most especially leaders.
The professional and emotional costs to women for speaking out about discrimination can be large (in terms of retaliation, being perceived as less employable or difficult to work with, or companies then seeking to portray them as poor performers). I know a number of female software engineers who will privately share stories of sexism with trusted friends that we are not willing to share publicly because of the risk. This is why it is important to proactively address this issue. There is more than enough published research and personal stories from those who have chosen to publicly share to confirm that this is a widespread issue in the tech industry.
Change is possible. Although these are schools and not tech companies, Harvey Mudd and Harvard Business School provide inspiring case studies. Strong leaders at both schools enacted sweeping changes to address previously male-centric cultures. Harvey Mudd has raised the percentage of computer science majors that are women to 40% (the national average is 18%). The top 5% of Harvard Business School graduates rose from being approximately 20% women to closer to 40% and the GPA gap between men and women closed, all within one year of making a number of comprehensive, structural changes.

These recommendations on what companies could do to improve their cultures are based on a mix of research and personal experience. My goal is to have a positive focus, and I would love it if you walked away with at least one concrete goal for making constructive change at your company.
It is very common at tech start-ups to promote talented engineers to management without providing them with any management training or oversight, particularly at rapidly growing companies where existing leadership is stretched thin. These new managers are often not aware of any of the research on motivation, human psychology, or bias. Untrained, unsupervised managers cause more harm to women than men, although regardless, all employees would benefit from new managers receiving training, mentorship, and supervision.
In the Yale study mentioned above regarding applicants for police chief, getting participants to formalize their hiring criteria before they looked at applications (i.e. deciding if formal education or street smarts was more important) reduced bias. I was once on a team where the hiring criteria were amorphous and where the manager frequently overrode majority votes by the team because of “gut feeling”. It seemed like unconscious bias played a large role in decisions, but because of our haphazard approach to hiring, there was no way of truly knowing.
Leadership sets the values and culture for a company, so the onus is on them to make it clear that they value diversity. Younger engineers and managers will follow their perceptions of what executives value. In the cases of positive change at Harvey Mudd and Harvard Business School, leadership at the top was spearheading these initiatives. Intel is going to begin tying executives’ compensation to whether they achieve diversity goals on their teams. As Kelly Shuster, director for the Denver chapter of Women Who Code has pointed out, leaders have to get rid of employees who engage in sexist or racist behavior. Otherwise, the company is at risk of losing talented employees, and is sending a message to all employees that discrimination is okay.
There is a well-documented confidence gap between men and women. Don’t rely on people nominating themselves for promotions or to get the most interesting projects, since women are less likely to put themselves forward. Google relies on employees nominating themselves for promotions and data revealed that women were much less likely to do so (and thus much less likely to receive promotions). When senior women began hosting workshops encouraging women to nominate themselves, the number of women at Google receiving promotions increased. Groups are more likely to pick male leaders because of their over-confidence, compared to more qualified women who are less confident. Don’t rely heavily on self-evaluations in performance scoring. Women perceive their abilities as being worse than they are, whereas men have an inflated sense of their abilities.
Confirm that men and women with the same qualifications are earning the same amount and that they are receiving promotions and raises at similar rates (and if not, explore why). Make sure that gendered criticism (such as calling a woman strident or abrasive) is not used in performance reviews. The trend of tech companies releasing their diversity statistics is a good one, but given the high industry attrition rate for women, they should also start releasing their retention rates broken down by gender. I would like to see companies release statistics on the rates at which women are given promotions or raises compared to men, and how performance evaluation scores compare between men and women. By publicly sharing data, companies can hold themselves accountable and can track changes over time.
A culture that rewards facetime and encourages people to regularly stay late or eat dinner at the office puts employees with families at a disadvantage (particularly mothers), and research shows that working excess hours does not actually improve productivity in the long-term since workers begin to experience burn out after just a few weeks. Furthermore, when employees burn out and quit, the cost of recruiting and hiring a new employee is typically 20% of the annual salary for that position.
Stanford research studies document that women are more likely to dislike competitive environments compared to men and are more likely to select out of them, regardless of their ability. Given that women are perceived negatively for being too assertive, it is tougher for women to succeed in a highly aggressive environment as well. Men who speak up more than their peers are rewarded with 10% higher ratings, whereas women who speak up more are punished with 14% lower ratings. Creating a competitive culture where people must fight for their ideas makes it much tougher for women to succeed.
Over 10% of the 716 women who left tech in Kieran Snyder’s research left because of inadequate maternity leave. Several were pressured to return from leave early or to be on call while on leave. These women did not want to be stay-at-home-parents, they just wanted to recover after giving birth. Just as you would not pressure someone to return to work without recovery time after a major surgery, women need time to physically heal after delivering a baby. When Google increased paid maternity leave from 12 weeks to 18 weeks, the number of new moms who quit Google dropped by 50%.

There is a huge amount of research on unconscious racial bias, and tech companies need to address this issue. As Nichole Sanchez, VP of Social Impact at GitHub, describes, calls for diversity are often solely about adding more white women, which is deeply problematic. Racial bias adds another intersectional dimension to the discrimination that women of color experience. In interviews with 60 women of color who work in STEM research, 100% of them had experienced discrimination, and the particular negative stereotypes they faced differed depending on their race. A resume with a traditionally African-American sounding name is less likely to be called for an interview than the same resume with a traditionally white sounding name. I do not have the personal experience to speak about this topic and instead encourage you to read these blog posts and articles by and about tech workers of color on the challenges they’ve faced: Erica Baker (Slack engineer, former Google engineer), Justin Edmund (designer, Pinterest’s 7th employee), Aston Motes (Engineer, Dropbox’s 1st employee), and Angelica Coleman (developer advocate at Zendesk, formerly at Dropbox).

I’m currently teaching software development at all-women Hackbright Academy, a job that I love and that suits me perfectly. I want all women to have the opportunity (and I mean truly have the opportunity, without implicit or explicit discrimination) to learn how to program — knowing software development provides so many career and financial possibilities; it’s intellectually rewarding and fun; and being a creator is deeply satisfying. Although I know many women with frustrating experiences of sexism, I also know women who have found companies where they’re happily thriving. I’m glad for the attention tech’s diversity problem has been receiving and I am hopeful about continued change.
Thanks for review, edits, and discussion to: Jeremy Howard and Angie Chang.
hackbright instructor, math phd, software developer, @math_rachel
BY JON WESTENBERG
When you admire someone’s success, and tell them that their work has great meaning for you, the reaction of most people is to downplay your compliment.
There’s the standard response:
There’s the awkward line:
And then, there’s the insincerity of:
The same thing happens when people show their work. It’s always with caveats, with disclaimers and with phrases meant to distract you from the simple fact that they’re proud of themselves.
But we don’t need to play that game. When something we have worked on is good, and we know it’s good, and others say it’s good, there’s no reason to try and look humble, or to attempt to sidestep the praise. Because at the end of the day…
I think there’s two reasons that creatives and entrepreneurs dance the humble shuffle and hide their pride:

The first reason is that we’re conditioned to avoid and reject praise. This happens from a young age. Everyone is told that they shouldn’t seem arrogant or full of themselves. Bringing others down a peg or two is considered to be a good thing. How shitty is that?
We are all like that. Me, you, everybody. If you think you’re not, you need to work on being honest with yourself.
The effect of it is that when we finish work, no matter how good it is, even if it’s the single greatest accomplishment of our lives, we’re scared that others will want to cut us down or criticise us if we seem to happy with ourselves. We want to protect our egos by pre-empting negative reactions and distancing ourselves from what we’ve finished even as we try to entice others to experience what we’ve made.
So we send out our work and we say:
You know what we should be saying?

Here’s the second reason. We just don’t think that we should be the ones talking about what we’ve done. That’s for others to do.
We feel too awkward to talk about how well we think we did.
That’s why we pretend to be no big deal, and when we stand up to accept our Oscar-MTV-Startup awards we claim that we are humbled to be there, and all the credit really goes to our managers or boyfriends or that guy who makes our bagels in the morning.
But do you know what the problem is? In the end, there’s only one person who can really communicate about you and your accomplishments. And that’s you.
If you want to wait for others to talk about your work and sing the praises of what you’ve put out there into the black hole of the internet, you can go right ahead. But you’re missing out on your chance to share your journey.
Oh, and you’ll be waiting a long time.

It really is time we let go of both sincere and insincere modesty. I know that over the last few months I have worked harder than ever before to become a writer and to hone my craft. That hard work hasn’t happened at a desk, 9–5. It’s happened on the train home at the end of the day. I write half of my posts on my phone when I’m heading to the gym at 6 in the morning.
So when I finish a piece, when I finally drag it kicking and screaming over the word count, I don’t distance myself from it. I tell my closest friends, look at this thing that I managed to pull out of myself when it was late at night and I could have been doing a dozen other things.
I’m proud of my writing. I really am. And you should be proud too. Proud of your work, your company, your app, your brand new song, that 5 page film script with the three flashbacks and the dream sequences. You should be proud of the lines of code you slaved over and the UI that nobody is going to notice because it’s so bloody perfect.


Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

“Jack of all trades. Master of none.”
The warning against being a generalist has persisted for hundreds of years in dozens of languages.
“Equipped with knives all over, yet none is sharp,” warned people in China. In Estonia, it went, “Nine trades, the tenth one — hunger.”
Yet, many of the most impactful individuals — both contemporary and historical — have been generalists: Elon Musk, Steve Jobs, Arianna Huffington, Ben Franklin, Leonardo Da Vinci,and Marie Curie.
Are these legends just genius anomalies? Or are they models that we can all learn from?
My research over the past year shows that the latter is true. There is a surprisingly strong link between diversity of relationships / knowledge(being a generalist) and career success.
Many people fail to become successful generalists because schools and society tend to encourage focus on a single expertise. As a result, few ever develop the necessary skillset.
The good news is that with practice and some of the tools in this article, anyone can become a successful generalist.

Meeting new people outside of our current circles and learning outside of our expertise is hard and hard to justify.
For example, if you’re a marketing executive, it’s much easier to justify reading the latest marketing book than it is to read a classic book on evolutionary biology. Yet, reading that biology book might give you a completely novel idea that no one else in your field has.
In confronting this challenge, we must embrace the paradox of the usefulness of useless knowledge as poignantly shared by Nobel Laureate, Richard Feynman:
Here are six concrete strategies from some of the world’s top generalists (who also happen to be millionaire and billionaire entrepreneurs) to help you efficiently and systematically explore new areas…

Ray Dalio is the founder of the largest hedge fund in the world, Bridgewater Associates, which has $169+ billion under management. His approach is based on a set of fundamental principles, which he explains in a 117-page treatise, which I summarized.
Core to Dalio’s philosophy is becoming an independent thinker rather than focusing on what you are taught by others:
In other words, according to Dalio, the key to being a successful investor is finding when the consensus is wrong and having an independent opinion that is right.
The same principle holds true in other fields such as venture capital. Famous technology investor, Peter Thiel, selects the founders he backs in part by asking them what they strongly believe that no one else does.
According to Dalio, the first step to becoming an independent thinker is to understand reality deeply. In order to do this early in his career, he ordered all the annual reports of Fortune 500 companies and worked his way through the most interesting ones and formed opinions.
Warren Buffett took a similar approach. According to the book, Outsiders, he has kept up a habit of reading 3 annual reports a day for his entire career. When asked how to get smarter, Buffett once held up stacks of paper and said, “Read 500 pages like this every day. That’s how knowledge builds up, like compound interest.”
Charlie Munger’s success as one of the world’s top investors and Warren Buffett’s longtime business partner did not come from having a laser-like focus on investment theory. Rather, he studied widely and deeply in many fields, including microeconomics, psychology, law, mathematics, biology, and engineering, and applied insights from these fields to investing.
Munger’s rules and quotes are excerpted from various talks that he’s given, which are featured in his book, Poor Charlie’s Almanack.



Charlie Munger famously stated, “In my whole life, I have known no wise people (over a broad subject matter area) who didn’t read all the time — none.” Emerson Spartz, 28, embodies this ideal.
He dropped out of school at 12, taught himself to speed read, and created his own wide-ranging curriculum. Spartz has now read thousands of books, for awhile even averaging a book per day.
Spartz’s broad reading brought him to the conclusion that, “There are no original ideas. There are just people who aren’t widely read enough to realize their ideas aren’t original.”
Over time, Spartz developed theories on how to make sites go viral. He successfully tested those theories on Facebook Pages; many of which acquired millions of fans. He then progressed to testing his theories with media properties. Today, his company, Spartz Media, is a network of sites (like Dose.com and OMG Facts) with 45+ million visitors per month.
Spartz’s company uses a research and repurpose strategy. A proprietary algorithm finds trending articles with certain qualities and repurposes them for the site’s unique audience.
“In my experience,” Spartz says, “it is much faster and less risky to read more widely and repurpose what is already working, or has worked somewhere else, than to attempt to come up with an idea that you think is original but actually isn’t.”
While most people in our society put their attention into what’s new andpopular, Jason Duff, an Ohio entrepreneur, does the exact opposite. In his real estate endeavors, this means finding historic real estate properties that are undervalued and restoring them, rather than building new properties.
This approach has helped him create hundreds of jobs in his community and build several multimillion dollar businesses.
Duff’s key insight is that wisdom — and value — can be found in the old. The Lindy Effect demonstrates this idea; for every additional day an idea or technology survives, it becomes more likely it will survive longer into the future.
While we tend to assume the newest releases and latest editions will be the most relevant, seeking out classic ideas that have stood the test of time often hold the most unique insights.
Famous science fiction author, William Gibson, once said, “The future is already here — it’s just not very evenly distributed.”
Ryan Simonetti, co-founder of Convene, has built a team of 150+ employees through a unique approach of finding clues of the future in today’s world:
“As an entrepreneur, I’ve found a powerful approach to finding clues is looking for ‘edge cases’ (i.e., extreme users and early adopters of new technology) and then deeply listening to those users in order to understand their unmet needs,” Simonetti says.
“The toughest thing for anybody is to understand what it means to be truly objective and look at the world from someone else’s perspective. In my experience, the best way to do this is the ‘Ask, Observe, Engage’ approach, which is an integral part of design thinking:
Bottom line: look for those edge case users that will define your business and learn deeply from them by asking questions of, observing, and engaging them.
Arianna Huffington started her career as an author, became a journalist, ran for governor, and ultimately founded one of the fastest growing media companies in history, The Huffington Post.
Changing careers and exploring new ideas means letting go of all the time you invested going down one path. It means reinventing your identity, building new relationships, and letting go of limiting beliefs.
When I asked what allowed her to be be so radically open, she related it back to one concept — a “life audit” she did at age 40.
The exercise revealed to Huffington that many of the goals she had committed to in her head (learning German, becoming a good skier, etc.) simply weren’t getting done. Rather than continuing to stress over the goals she wasn’t achieving, she instead chose to consciously remove them from her list and focus on the goals that mattered most to her. This gave her more energy to pursue life-changing business opportunities on the horizon.
Research backs this up. Every day, each of us wastes valuable brainpower holding on to commitments we’ve made that are no longer realistic or important.
If you’ve ever killed yourself trying to meet an unreasonable deadline or shown up ridiculously late to a meeting instead of just rescheduling, you know exactly how much of an energy suck these inessential commitments can be.
“One of the best ways to open up your life to new possibilities is… not by adding new things, but by dropping things that no longer serve you,” Huffington said. “This not only means removing things you’re doing now, but shouldn’t be. It also means removing things from your mind that you think you should be doing, but realistically never will.”

So, expert or generalist?
Perhaps it’s not one or the other.
It’s time for a new model; one that considers the benefits of being a specialist and a generalist.
Perhaps, the winning formula is being what Orit Gadiesh, chairman of Bain (a multi-billion dollar consulting company) calls an ‘expert-generalist’. Gadiesh explains it like this:
“An expert-generalist is someone who has the ability and curiosity to master and collect expertise in many different disciplines, industries, skills, capabilities, countries, and topics and then:
The approach has differentiated Bain from its competitors and has propelled Gadiesh’s career.
Gadiesh goes wide by reading 100+ books a year including novels [in the language of the country she’s visiting] and books on physics, mathematics, history, biographies, and art.
Then, she goes deep by applying “cold, hard intellectual discipline”, and ruthlessly letting go of theories that she has fallen in love with, but that don’t hold up when examined with data.

The traditional narrative is that being a generalist is something you could only do decades or hundreds of years ago when business and science were less developed; when a single scientist could serendipitously discover an amazing medicine like penicillin growing around mold and usher in an era of life-saving antibiotics.
This narrative is misleading to the point of being wrong.
Yes, scientific discoveries require larger teams on average, according to research by Brian Uzzi, a professor at the Northwestern University Kellogg School of Management, who analyzed 26+ million scientific papers going back hundreds of years.
But the reason that teams are successful is not just because of more resources and deeper expertise; it’s also because those team members come from different disciplines and are able to cross-fertilize their insights into atypical, breakthrough combinations.
According to the discipline of scientometrics, the amount of academic research is doubling every 9 years and the number disciplines is growing exponentially. The same is true for the number of business industries.
What does this all mean?
As more business industries and scientific disciplines emerge, there are more opportunities to create breakthrough ideas by combining fields in atypical ways. We literally have the world’s knowledge at our finger tips.
It’s a good time to be an expert-generalist.
* * * * *
As a resource for this article, I put together a 13-page report you can download at no cost. It summarizes Ray Dalio’s very unique approaching to coming up with independent opinions that are true. I put it together because I didn’t see another summary anywhere else that was easy to comprehend or apply.
* * * * *
Other Articles In My Generalist Series
* * * *
Special thanks to Ian Chew and Sheena Lindahl who volunteered their time to edit this article and do research.
* * * *
Disclosure: Some of the contributors featured in this article are members ofSeminal, a selective council that distills research-backed, actionable insights from world-class entrepreneurs and leaders.
* * * * *
Michael Simmons writes at MichaelDSimmons.com and is co-founder of Empact. To receive more articles like this one, visit his blog.
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
O caso é verídico, eu estava presente e posso confirmar. Em uma reunião entre os gestores de uma determinada empresa um dos sócios colocou na mesa uma sugestão:
- Vamos comprar uma enorme piroca de pelúcia.
Os demais não levaram muito a sério, afinal aquele que apresentou a ideia tinha o hábito de fazer sugestões divertidas, geralmente como uma forma bem humorada de crítica.
- Sério, vamos comprar uma pica de pelúcia. Uma enorme, assim, quase do tamanho de uma pessoa.- Sério mesmo?- Sim, e todo funcionário ao chegar vai bater uma foto abraçada com ela.- E pra quê?- Porque essa será nossa política: essa pica também é minha.
E faz sentido.
Um dos grandes problemas de se gerir uma operação é justamente a cultura do "a minha parte eu fiz" ou do "ah, mas isso aí não é comigo". Nada explica melhor essa cultura do que uma historinha que costumam contar no meio empresarial de São Paulo para "ajustar" os mais idealistas.
Tem um quê de sabedoria corporativa, não nego. Eu mesmo lidei com situações assim em São Paulo. Chegando em um novo emprego tive o desprazer de participar de uma reunião com umas 12 pessoas que passaram cerca de 2h discutindo de quem era a culpa por uma falha em uma campanha. Cansado levantei a mão e larguei "opa, a culpa é minha, podemos voltar a trabalhar?". Levei um belo esporro por ter "assumido" uma culpa que não podia ser minha afinal eu havia acabado de chegar. Oras, isso me parecia óbvio, claro que a culpa não era minha, eu queria mesmo era acabar com a discussão e mostrar o quanto aquele bate boca estava sendo improdutivo. E caro. Queria provar um ponto apenas. O interessante é que a maior parte das pessoas na reunião achou minha ação satisfatória, fingindo não ter percebido a alfinetada, ficando feliz por ter se livrado daquela "pica" mesmo.
Essa política precisa mudar. Todos precisam ser responsáveis pelo resultado final, todos precisam se preocupar em resolver, em entregar. Recentemente li Criatividade S/A, livro escrito por Edwin Catmull, um dos fundadores da Pixar. No livro ele fala de como as coisas melhoraram na empresa quando ele conseguiu implantar uma cultura onde todos eram responsáveis pelo controle de qualidade, onde qualquer um, independente da posição hierárquica, poderia apontar falhas ou fazer sugestões. Uma cultura pela qualidade, pela solução, pela responsabilidade com o todo. Detalhe, isso antes da Disney. E, falando em Disney, essa é uma cultura que eles prezam muito lá, vejam esse caso que tive conhecimento nessa semana, narrado por Claudio Nasajon.
E você, "escolhe a menor e senta em cima" ou acredita que "essa pica também é sua"?
Gostou do texto? Se gostou clica aí no "recommend", logo abaixo, e ajude mais pessoas a conhecê-lo.
A primeira publicação brasileira no Medium. Uma produção colaborativa de histórias e tendências para instigar você!


Yes, we get it. Google is not a conventional company. Larry Page said so in the first letter to shareholders when the company went public in 2004. And in case we missed this, Page repeated the quote today when announcing that Google, as it existed before August 10, 2015, would thereafter be known as Alphabet. Most of the stuff we interact with from Google — search, ads, YouTube, Gmail, and Android — will be part of just one of several companies under the Alphabet umbrella. At least that company will retain the familiar name.
The other companies — including Google X, Fiber, Calico, Nest, Sidewalk, and Google Ventures — will be fully owned, but separate, each with its own CEO and finances. In that sense, Google will be like Warren Buffett’s universally admired Berkshire Hathaway, a conglomeration of firms bound only by its ownership.
No one expects Alphabet to operate in the hands-off manner with which Buffett oversees his empire. Page, as CEO of the whole enchilada, will make sure that no executive in his domain will be chief enough to buck his philosophy of thinking big, exploiting technology at scale, and snubbing convention.
The question is, how separate will those companies be? The sense I get at Google is that this new structure is but an evolution of a process begun when Page stepped back from everyday operations last October and turned over much of Google’s product functions to his key lieutenant Sundar Pichai (who now becomes the CEO of Google lite). But Google…er, Alphabet, has seemingly crossed a line by structuring its divisions as separate companies in the Berkshire Hathaway model. At this point, neither Page or anyone else has indicated how thick that line is.
And that’s important. For many years, observers have expressed puzzlement at Google’s adventuresome propensity to generate divisions seemingly built on non sequiturs. What did self-driving cars have to do with search? Can you sell ads with smart thermostats? But when you scratched the surface, you could always figure how such ventures actually did promote Google’s core business. For instance, self-driving cars are huge consumers of Google Maps, and if people are liberated from driving they can do more web searching.
You could regard those crazy moonshots as wild blood injected into the core business, a perpetual antidote to corporate anemia. Because these divisions were part of Google itself, they could easily share their innovations with the part of the company that consumers used daily. When a team inside Google X invented a learning system informally called the Google Brain, it was soon moved to Google’s Knowledge division to enhance the search engine. Will that process be so easily repeated when Google X is run as a separate company? Or will the research division’s CEO be able to decide that his own firm would be better off selling the team to Microsoft or Yahoo? (I put the question to the company formerly known as Google, and didn’t get an answer. I’m not even sure that the answer to that has been determined.)
Or consider the role of Tony Fadell, the once and future CEO of Nest, the company Google bought for $3.2 billion in January 2014. Nest now becomes one of the separate Google companies, which may not make much difference because Google was letting Fadell run it as a quasi-independent duchy. But because Nest was part of the larger enterprise, Fadell had been tapped for broader responsibilities at Google, including the reinvention of Google Glass. Will he now relinquish that role to once again run Nest as a single entity? (Nest told me it wasn’t revealing any details in addition to Page’s statement.)
And what about Fiber, the division of Google devoted to installing and operating high-speed Internet? As I understand it, the mission of Fiber was not necessarily to make money from subscribers but to hasten a higher-speed infrastructure that would make Google’s core products more attractive and profitable. Will its new CEO now have to change direction in order to burnish his own bottom line? (Actually, that could be really interesting — if Fiber bulked up to be a major Internet provider rather than a burgeoning experiment, it might really jolt the incumbents.)
Obviously, Alphabet is not going full Berkshire Hathaway here. In Buffett’s world, an innovation made at Fruit of the Loom does not quickly get shared at Dairy Queen or Geico. But with Alphabet, Page is granting his divisions at least a measure of more autonomy — and an incentive to optimize for the one and not for the all. As Page writes, “Alphabet is about businesses prospering through strong leaders and independence.” It will be fascinating to see how this plays out.
Scrabble, anyone?
Follow Backchannel: Twitter | Facebook
I’m starting a tech hub at Medium.
Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

by Jeremy StewartIllustrations by Rob Hudak
If you’re like me at all, you love a good joke that’s related to web development. Here are a few I‘ve thought up over the years. Some are good, some are cheesy, but all are guaranteed to have you laughing at your computer terminal for hours.
Q: Why did the web designer drown?A: She didn’t know if she should float:left or float:right.
Q: Why was the web developer fired from his job?A: He was getting too Sassy.
Alternate version:
Q: Why was the web developer fired from her job?A: She did Less every day.
Q: What did the Southern web developer say when he found out his team stopped using version control?A: Y’all better Git!
Q: Why did the developer stay home from work?A: She had a code!
Q: How did the scrawny web developer put on some muscle?A: He started using flexbox (with float fallbacks for older versions of IE).
Q: Why was the JavaScript reality show cancelled after only one episode?A: People thought it seemed scripted.
Q: How can you tell that a web developer is working?A: You can hear him Grunting!
A junior developer panicked when he realized he didn’t know how to initiate a secure shell session to a remote machine. As he became more upset and his voice grew louder, his boss — the senior developer — took notice and tried to quiet him down. With his finger pressed to the young developers lips, the senior developer calmly whispered, “SSH.”
Q: Why does no one like jokes about descriptions, keywords, or character encodings?A: They’re too ‘meta’.
Q: Why was the iOS developer always so sleepy?A: She wasn’t given any Java.
Update: Four great jokes submitted by Shawn Bailly:
Q: Why did the IP cross the subnet?A: Because the NAT said to!
Q: Why couldn’t the variable enter the JavaScript store?A: It was (Closured())!
Q: Why was the class upset that its parent died?A: Because it wouldn’t be getting the inheritance!
Q: Why did the class attend the gay pride parade?A: It supported polymorphism.
Wonderful joke by @sharonlin:
Q: Why don’t web developers get along with others?A: They’re too MEAN.

Do you have a funny web development joke of your own? Comment it on this article or submit a pull request here!
Developer, dog owner, design lover. Full stack developer, haiku writer. I build responsive, accessible websites.

Few things in life are constant: death, taxes, and strangers asking “So what do you do?” within a minute of a handshake.
As a UX designer, I’ve had a lot of practice over the years trying to nail down my answer.
Here’s what I’ve come up with:
It’s my job to be inside a user’s brain. I need to look at design from the mindspace of a user (actually, lots of users) and squash potential problems or confusion.
This never-ending process requires keeping UX present before, during, and after the build is complete. It’s always a challenge to act with the user in mind — influences like due dates and bottom lines sometimes cloud the way.
To help keep your product on the right path, I’ve assembled a list of 5 UX principles I use to guide my design process. Understanding how and why to make UX decisions goes a long way in explaining things to others on the team, which goes an even longer way in getting said UX decisions into the final product.
Good design is easy to digest — the brain shouldn’t have to expend a ton of energy to figure out what the heck it’s looking at. With any luck, people will just “get it” without needing a 6-section explanation.
This goes beyond clear, easy-to-read copy. People sometimes need guidance to make decisions, so a menu with a list of 12 inline items may seem daunting. Organizing with some hierarchy (size, color, icons) can help highlight the more common choices, which allows someone to find what they’re looking for faster.
Another good example of digestible design is the new user guide, often presented as staggered tips that a person can process one at a time. But imagine the opposite, hitting a brand-new user with a whole stack of instructions, removed from the context of the product. No one likes a confusing surprise.
Consider all the decisions you’re asking someone to make with your product to get to the bottom of the funnel. The brain has a limited amount of cognitive resources during the day — using them up needlessly is rude.
Good design is honest. Aside from understanding the words in your value prop, you need the user to understand the actual value. Being coy or unclear about your product isn’t going to win any fans.
Related to value, pricing is an area where clarity is everything. Users aren’t going to click “Buy now” if they can’t figure out what you’re asking them to pay. While shady “free trials” that switch to auto-billing might be the norm, I doubt they’re winning any popularity contests.
This may sound cheesy, but a good plan is to simply follow the Golden Rule. Explain things like you’d want them explained to you. Make things as clear as you can. You know what you’d expect out of the products you choose to use, so don’t you dare build something less.
Good design is easy to trust. Before asking someone to complete an action, make every effort to help them understand why the task is needed. Being honest and clear in explanations builds trust at each step, leading to increasingly easier conversions down the funnel.
Consider Uber (and Lyft, depending on which way you swing). They’ve made catching a ride so easy that a 100-year-old industry is now in chaos. The app saves your payment info, which you might not feel comfortable exchanging with a stranger, and facilitates a trustworthy, painless transaction.
Removing doubt will create a growingly invisible experience. As decisions require less and less resources, using the product becomes easier and more enjoyable.
Ground-breaking design is awesome, but design that converts is better. New frameworks and flashy plugins might look nice on Dribbble, but if no one is clicking the “buy” buttons, you’ve got a problem.
Platform guidelines exist for a reason. While it might seem that making your product look exactly the same from platform to platform is the main goal, be careful to pay respect to the sticky details of each OS. Using familiar patterns, icons, and presentational styles is a great way to look native, even if you’re not.
Testing your solutions on actual devices goes a long way to ensuring things feel at home in each environment, which is where a tool like InVision shines. Pretending to be a user is easier when you’re not also having to pretend to use a device.
It’s been said that an idea isn’t enough anymore, that execution is what wins the war. Ironically, the more the team executes, the less the user has to. The more simplicity you can bring to a complex problem, the more delighted the user will be with your solution.
The ultimate delight is when someone forgets your product is a “product” — where it’s so useful that it doesn’t even read as a product anymore, just simply as some useful thing in a person’s life.
Building thoughtful products with clear intentions shows that you care, makes choices more comfortable, and leads to a better overall experience. And that’s important, because it’s been found that 68% of users giving up did so because they think you don’t care about them (which we know isn’t true!).
It’s easy to judge the user experience of your own product as long as you’re honest with yourself. Walk a mile in someone’s shoes, considering each action in your product from the brainspace of a tired, weary person. Would you click next?
Originally published at blog.invisionapp.com on July 8, 2015.
Prototyping, Collaboration & Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at http://www.InVisionApp.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

In this day and age, it can be hard to keep your child from being exposed to Elon Musk. Although you may do your best on the home front, they may inevitably stumble across a profile piece or news item on TV at a friend’s house or the computer at the school library. For that reason, it’s better to be prepared for your child’s eventual exposure to Elon Musk and to know how to respond to the questions you may be asked.
If your child asks why you’re not a billionaire like Elon Musk.
Tell your child that Elon Musk is highly unusual, as exemplified by his strange name. Tell your child that if your parents had named you Zambor Dweemoflux you might very well have become a billionaire too, but the fact of the matter is you’re stuck with Jim or Linda or Steve and a normal surname. This is a good opportunity to inform them that life isn’t always “fair” and not everyone gets a circus name like Elon Musk or Sepp Blatter that simply lends itself to being crazy wealthy.
If your child asks why Elon Musk seemingly generates amazing ideas on routine trips to the bathroom.
Tell your child that before he/she was born you too had a groundbreaking idea for a rainbow-powered washing machine. Let them know you were on the verge of getting a patent and becoming fabulously wealthy but then they happened. Tell them you selflessly let your dreams die so that you could focus on being a “hands on” parent because Harry Chapin’s Cat’s In The Cradle really freaked you out.
If your child asks why you’ve still failed to build a toolshed in the backyard while Elon Musk creates multiple corporations with the snap of his fingers.
Make sure your child understands that Elon Musk is an abomination created in human form — the love child of two ender-demons, Gorshak and Melkanor from the seventh circle of Hell. Tell him/her that he was born specifically to make everyone else in the world look like serial underachievers and feel bad about themselves. Tell your child that you are “The Chosen One” and that in order to prevent Elon Musk from his nefarious goal of spreading global unhappiness and dissatisfaction with everyone else’s relatively pathetic accomplishments they must never again acknowledge the demon-spawn’s profane victories.
If that doesn’t work, take away your child’s iPad until they stop bringing his name up.
This originally appeared on banterist.com
I self-identify as Brian Sack • www.briansack.com
I think when people are ultra-positive and have this incomparably sunny disposition toward the world, I get turned off. There’s a lot of stuff out there which attempts to make you feel inspired, but ends up leaving you feeling ashamed for being human. It would be easy for me to say:
“Everything happens for a reason!”
“Life is an adventure!”
“Love solves everything!”
“Happiness is a choice!”
These are easy words to say. Easy things to think. Easy, easy, easy. But, their meanings dry up the moment life happens.
I have spent far too many nights feeling ashamed that I couldn’t be more positive, happier, better, stronger. I’d look at these shiny people plastered with positivity and I’d wonder where I went wrong. Why was I so affected by the world? Why didn’t every day feel like an adventure? Don’t these people have to pay bills and have uncomfortable conversations and wake up sometimes with a headache and an axe to grind? Why was I seemingly the only one so deeply affected by the human experience?
I don’t want to be inspired anymore. Inspiration is cheap. It’s easy. It’s flowery. It’s drenched in promises no one can fulfill.
I want to feel understood. I want to feel heard. I want to feel like my weird and twisty and dark thoughts and fears and feelings are not unique to me. I don’t need someone negating my experience in order to provide me with sweet words fluffy as clouds — and just as transparent. I want gritty and real and raw and I’d rather see people fucking up than trying to act as if they never do.
I’m tired of people trying to inspire me to have a better, bigger, happier life. Let me exist. Let me fumble. Let me find the patch of light in the long tunnel of darkness. Let me figure out some shit on my own. I say we need less fake inspiration in this world and more realness. Less doomsday. Less fake happiness. More real shit. Less preaching. More storytelling. Less advice. More community.
I wish people would stop trying to perfect my life. Everybody is selling the magic pill to happiness. Why do I have to be so happy all the time? CAN I LIVE?
I want you to know that you don’t need to fix yourself if you’re not smiling every moment of the day. Sometimes you have very little to be grateful for and that’s okay. Sometimes it’s hard to muster up the energy to be happy with what you have when you want so much more from the world and yourself. That’s okay. It’s okay to be angry and to be kind of dark and weird and not a ball of positivity every moment. Sometimes it’s okay to be bored and to think that happiness is a bit boring because it kind of is. Sometimes it’s fine to be moody and sad and contemplative and to solve problems with a glass of wine or a pizza or some good sex I don’t even know but it’s okay to just not have it all figured out, to have no answers, to just be like, what is the point of anything.
It’s okay to feel like the ground is shaking beneath your feet. It’s okay because everything is temporary. You can lose your footing one day and be on top of the world the next. Things can change in a blink. Happiness is as fleeting as anything else. These fake salespeople who act like they have the cure to being human really grind me up. All they serve to do is make you feel ashamed for not having it all figured out. They sell your aspirational experience and bake shame into it.
Just promise me that the last thing you’ll do is be ashamed of where you’re at in your experience of being a human. Nothing good comes from shame. It’s about the lowest vibrational place you could be operating from. Avoid shame and anything or anyone that causes you shame. Get it all the hell out of your energy field. Shame is not going to motivate you. It’s going to drain you.
If there’s one promise you can make for yourself, let it be this: I will not let myself be ashamed of my unique experience of being human. Forget the positive bullshit: that promise, that mantra, that state of mind is what can really change lives. A person incapable of cowering to shame is a hero — considering all the many reasons our world gives us reasons to be ashamed. To forgo the feeling of shame is an act of radical resistance. Let yourself be. To truly be. What freedom.
If you enjoyed this post, feel free to Recommend it. You can also like my Facebook page or follow me on Twitter.
writer // jamievaron.com
This post was originally published on Rype.
“If only I could have learned Spanish a few years ago…”“If only I learned about investing when I was still in my early twenties…”
If only.
For many of us, there are more things we want to learn than we have time.
As information becomes more readily accesible online, the number of things we want to learn is only continuing to increase. And the only variable we can control is the amount of time we spend learning them.
Shortening the learning curve is a topic that’s been studied for many years, and this guide will cover the fundamental core principles of learning faster. You’d be able to leverage these principles to push yourself to learn faster in any topics including languages, business, musical instruments, and more.
Why reinvent a wheel that’s already been created?
The common tendency we all have when learning something new is trying to master it alone, underestimating the amount of time and effort that can be saved by getting help from someone who’s learnt it.
Think back to a time when you first learned how to speak a new language or a new skill.
You probably had a steep learning curve initially, but after a few years or even months of experimenting and making mistakes, you could design a shortcut to help a friend avoid those same mistakes you made early on.
In order to achieve mastery faster, our first step should be to consult the top players in the field, and model the path they have already carved out for us.
As Tony Robbins puts it:
In this day and age, it’s possible to retrieve almost any solution that’s out there in the form of books, blogs, training videos, consultants, someone in our network — the list goes on.
The next step to hacking the learning curve is to deconstruct the skill into its basic, fundamental components. Break down the parts and find the most important things to practice first.
This is in reference to the popularized Pareto’s Principle, where the goal is to generate 80% of results putting in 20% of the effort.

It turns out that this concept can apply to almost anything in life, including:
Here’s the Pareto graph in a different visual format.

Embracing this way of thinking only goes to show that very few things actually make a difference in any aspect of our lives, including learning.
Our goal then, should be to separate the 20% of our learning materials that will give us 80% of the result.
As it turns out, fast-learning experts have already embraced this ideology, and have provided some concrete examples on how to do this effectively.
In his Ted Talk, Josh Kaufman believes that you don’t need 10,000 hours in order to master a skill. As Kaufman elaborates, the key is to embrace the first 20 hours, and learn the most important subset skills within that time frame to get the maximum amount of impact.
Related topic to learn: Parkinson’s Law
For example:
Multi-tasking is a guilty pleasure we’ve all developed in the age of constant notifications and mobile applications. From checking our emails every ten minutes, to scrolling through our instagram feed, to co-workers coming by our desk for a “five-minute break.”
However, multi-tasking can be one of the biggest hurdles preventing us from learning faster.
Think about your own computer.
When you have 20+ different tabs open on your browser, your computer begins to slow down and it takes longer to process every action afterwards.
Studies have shown that when an individual gets distracted, it takes an average of 25 minutes to return to the task at hand.
What’s more important to note, is that a study done by the University of California, Irvine, found that a co-worker gets only 11 minutes before they’re distracted.
The same thing applies to our long-term focus. Many of us aren’t able to dedicate the 6–12+ months it takes to learn a skill because of the countless new projects, ideas, or hobbies that come our way.
And when we decide to shift our focus towards a new distraction, it’s much more difficult to find the same passion and drive to focus on the previous skill.
Once you have deconstructed the subset skills that will give you the maximum amount of results, focus solely on improving those skills and avoid learning anything else until you’ve mastered them.
This is the part where most of us struggle, and what many of us don’t want to hear.
YES! The key to mastering anything faster requires practice.
It requires frequency and persistence of performing the same skill over and over again, until you can do it subconsciously, without having to think about it.
The best performers in the world understand this “secret” to learn faster and become the best, yet rarely talk about its importance because of how unsexy it sounds.
Expert-level performance is primarily the result of expert-level practice, not due to innate talent.
As K. Anders. Ericsson, a scientific researcher from Florida State University, elaborates in his paper:
Recommended further reading:5 Research-Backed Methods to Master Any Skill Faster
In 1960, while they were still an unknown high school rock band, the Beatles went to Hamburg, Germany to play in the local clubs.
The group was underpaid. The acoustics were terrible. The audiences were unappreciative. So what did the Beatles get out of the Hamburg experience?
Non-stop hours of playing time, practice, and immediate feedback that forced them to get better.
That’s the key difference that rose The Beatles to the top, according to Macolm Gladwell in his book Outliers.
The band brothers didn’t just practice in their garage for the sake of practicing; they strived to get in front of a live audience that will provide them immediate criticism and constructive feedback.

As the Beatles grew in skill, audiences demanded more performances — more playing time. By 1962 they were playing eight hours per night, seven nights per week. By 1964, the year they burst on the international scene, the Beatles had played over 1,200 concerts together.
By way of comparison, most bands today don’t play 1,200 times in their entire career.
This is why at Rype, we’re solely focused on connecting you with native speaking tutors, who can give you immediate feedback during your lessons.
Unfortunately, many of us give up before or during what Seth Godin calls “The Dip.”

Godin describes that although it’s important to know when to quit, many potential winners don’t reach success because they quit before the dip.
According to Godin:
Psychologists have also studied what’s known as the transition cycle.
It’s the cycle of progress we go through whenever we’re experiencing change or a novel event, such as a tragic event or even learning something new.

As you can see, there’s a sense of euphoria we all experience when we begin something new. It’s why we’re so addicted to seeing notifications on social media, because dopamine gets released each time.
Once the Honeymoon phase fades away, we experience the “dip” and our progress begins to plateau or diminish. This is when most of us quit.
The reason why this is important to visualize is because if you can predict that a dip is coming whenever you’re learning anything new, it’s easier to fight through it.
More importantly, the dip is there because those persistent enough to stick it through can ride the upward wave that is at the end of the tunnel.
We made it! Here’s the summary of main points discussed in the ultimate guide to hacking the learning curve:
Thanks for reading until the end! I’d greatly appreciate it if you could share this with one person that will find this valuable, and feel free to hit the big fat recommend button in the bottom! ☺
If you enjoyed this article, you’ll also like reading:-5 Research-Backed Methods to Master Any Skill Faster-How to Double Your Reading Speed (Without Losing Comprehension)-How to Learn Any Language in Less Than 90 Days
Adventurer, Entrepreneur, Lifehacker. Follow me @heyseankim http://thegrowthlist.com
Thoughts on language hacking, learning faster, and traveling the globe. https://rypeapp.com

It’s a good time to be a software engineer. The industry is booming, demand for coders continues to grow, and salaries are at an all time high.
But how long will the party last?
Telegraph Operators of the 21st century
There are striking parallels between software engineers today and telegraph operators of the 19th century. By today’s standard, telegraph operators were technical lightweights: the bulk of the job consisted of receiving and transmitting messages sent over telegraph wires in Morse code, a monotonous albeit attention-heavy task. In contrast, contemporary software engineering generally involves a broad skill set that requires a deep understanding of complex systems and the ability to quickly master and re-master an accelerating parade of new software development frameworks.
However, during the mid 19th century, telegraph operators were well paid, well regarded, and considered quite technical relative to other mainstream professions. They had freedom to travel, and highly skilled operators flocked to large cities for the best jobs. As telegraphy took off and more and more cables were laid, the demand for telegraph operators skyrocketed. Standards for faster communication were developed, and operators had to keep up, memorizing increasingly efficient and complex systems of shorthand and communication protocols. Thomas Edison was a telegraph operator early in his career before settling into his true calling of stealing ideas from Nikola Tesla and empire-building. And unsurprisingly, as with contemporary software engineering, there were huge pay discrepancies between men and women.
Yet by the 20th century, the telephone had been invented, a technology that had the distinct advantage of not requiring an operator tasked with translation from code to natural language. By the 1920s, there were only a small fraction of the telegraph operators left compared to the 1890s.
The Downfall of Software Engineering
Fast forward a hundred years, and we seem to be in a similar situation with software engineers. While this profession is undeniably one of broader skill and intellectual ability than operating a telegraph, software engineers of today occupy a similar functional role to the telegraph operators of Edison’s era. The contemporary explosion of software parallels the 19th century rise of early networked communications. And just as the demand for telegraph operators scaled more or less linearly with the rise of the telegram, the demand for software engineers is currently scaling roughly linearly with the rise of software. Back then, every telegram had to be translated from Morse code to natural language by a human being. Today, every line of source code (sort of) has to be written by a human being.
To be sure, software is becoming more efficient, in that sophisticated frameworks have been developed so that fewer lines of source code have to be written, and advanced programming languages, compilers and interpreters have made the life of the programmer much easier than it had been in the 1980s or 1990s. But fundamentally, the process of writing software is still largely a human activity today.
That will change.
The current version of the profession is under pressure along two fronts. First, there are website-building tools like Weebly that allow anyone to build a website without writing software. Moreover, basic high level software engineering is getting more and more accessible, so that the delta between expressing clear ideas and being able to program is vanishing.
Second, on another front, software is getting better at facilitating the creation of software. While we are still a ways away from a fully automated piece of software that can write other pieces of software given some minimal, half-baked specification (i.e. do the job of a human software engineer), it is part way there. And more importantly, we do not need full artificial intelligence capabilities in order for role of the software engineer to shrink; instead, our software itself will just play a bigger and bigger role relative to humans in the creation of software. As an analogy, imagine semi-automated computer-assisted driving as a first step before fully self-driving cars.
While there will still be specialized software engineers and plenty of computer science-minded humans in the future, it seems inevitable given both of the above pressures that Software Engineering as a category will fade into historical obscurity as we approach the 22nd century.
But if you’re a software engineer (as I am), don’t despair — the critical thinking and technical skills will surely come in useful for future needs that arise. And if they don’t, well, keep some of that money saved up.
Interested in fairness, transparency, security, large data sets, social interactions.


*Note: this is my first piece of writing on Medium. I’m really happy to be here, I think this platform and community of writers/thinkers is fantastic. Hi everyone here.*
A few months ago I joined Patreon, a crowdfunding website sort of like a hardcore, ongoing-style Kickstarter that allows fans to support artists on a regular basis by pledging to pay a certain amount of money — a dollar, three dollars — every time content is put out: a piece of music, an article, a video, a page of comic book art. It’s basically a trusting subscription to my general art-channel, true new-school patronage.
Since March I’ve gathered about 5,500 patrons, and whenever I release something, the community pays me about $35,000, which I then use to pay for my office, my small staff, my rent, my life, and the technicians and collaborators who help me make the art. Earlier this summer I worked with a great artist, Avi Ofer, to create a short animation using a found iPhone voice memo recording of weird shit my writer husband says in his sleep. Three weeks ago I went into the recording studio to make a record of cover songs with my dad. The other day I did a piece of bizzaro living-statue performance art + book-drive at the New York Public Library, filmed it, and will put that film out as a piece of patreon content. Nobody’s complaining yet.
All this is honestly a huge relief after wondering if I was going to have to mount a kickstarter campaign every year to release music, cover the bills and support my generally spontaneous art-making addiction.
As many artists are finding out, Kickstarter campaigns are thrilling, but a lot of work. It’s a lot of concrete stuff to put in the mail; it’s a lot of admin energy spent NOT making art. With patreon, I think shit up, I do my work, I put the content/music/video up for free for everyone to enjoy, and I still get paid. It’s great. In a TED talk I gave called “The Art of Asking” a few years ago (and again in the book with the same title) I argued for a possible future where we don’t punish people for sharing content.
Taylor Swift may disagree, but I’m still committed to the fact that neither Spotify nor iTunes is going to be the salvation of the modern musician. There’s just no proof that those giants are committed to the survival of the smaller artists. The way I see it, we’re better off using the new tools of the internet to exchange with each other, rather than rely on a different set of middlemen who are possibly even less committed to the true sustainability of artists’ careers than the major labels were.
Anyway.

With my first child, at 39 years old.
Then I got this email through the “Ask Amanda” portal on my website.
Dearest Amanda,
I love you. I’ve been a faithful fan of yours for nearly a decade. We’ve met face to face a couple times. I gushed about how it was you who inspired me to take up song-writing and composing. I gave you a bracelet. It was all sincere and heartfelt.
Lately though, you’ve had me concerned.
The steady stream of new music we used to hear from you seems to be dwindling. And most of the new songs you’ve released lately are the simplistic, feel good, ukulele tunes. Which are fine. But I know that those songs take less time and effort to write, and they offer much less brain-heart stimulation than your older work. Frankly, they’re a little disappointing.
You have a reasonably sized, and growing fanbase. There will always be people to buy your merch, your albums, tickets to your shows. You didn’t NEED to join Patreon, but you did anyway. Then you announced your pregnancy, after years of saying you didn’t want to be a mom. It makes me worry about what’s going to happen next.
Child care is my day job. I babysit my two nephews. I know that young children need LOTS of attention. Especially if they are hyper-sensitive like you or me. Chances are you’ll pass that trait on to your kid. When you have this baby, either him/her/it will suffer, or your career will suffer. Your career will suffer a lot sooner if your pregnancy is as physically and emotionally draining as some of my friends’ pregnancies.
So, my question is, did you do this on purpose?
Are your patrons paying for new music, or are they paying for a new baby?
Is what you’re doing really fair to your fans? When will the music happen? The really gritty, complex, emotional good stuff? Am I missing something important? Some behind-the-scenes stuff? Is my perception of time skewed?
Bottom line is, I need answers before I can feel comfortable giving you more of the money that I earned with my own sweat and tears.
Love always,
Worried-but-Still-Devoted
(The subject of the email, btw, was: “Baby announcement right after joining Patreon?…Scam much?”)
Dear Worried,
First off, thank you for taking the time to even write this letter, and thank you for being a fan of my music all these years. I really do love and cherish every person who cares enough to communicate with me.
Secondly, thanks for confirming my deepest, most insecure, harrowing fears about motherhood and about how people will perceive me now that I have decided to breed!
Sarcasm aside, it really is a pregnant artist’s worst nightmare….well… at least it is THIS pregnant artist’s worst nightmare to get a letter like this.

I had my first abortion at 17, senior year of high school, and I’ve had two more in the 22 years since, for varying complicated reasons. Though I don’t regret them, those were some of the hardest, darkest decisions and days of my life.
I agree with you that, yes, some artists, male and female, do get kinda boring after they have babies. I won’t name names, but we’ve seen it happen, dude. A passionate, angst-filled songwriter who speaks to the very core of your black, black, suffering soul all of a sudden mellows into parenthood and domesticity and starts writing sappy songs about how everything is just about….y’know….acceptance, balance, meadows of wheat, and going with the flow man.
I would never begrudge these artists their magical balance. It’s hard enough, right?
Here’s the thing: I have come to believe we don’t have to suffer to make great art. But — still, to this day — I’ve had a hard time shaking the belief that suffering and isolation are critically important ingredients of art-making. And I’ve spent years weighing the pros and cons of having a child:
Backstory.
Where I grew up, there weren’t really any Mom Artists in my field of vision.There were nice housewives and welfare moms and bad-ass career women who worked in tall buildings in the city, but no artists in sight with babies. I simply did not equate “mother” with “artist”. Artists were another breed of being entirely, encountered almost exclusively through MTV and magazines. Usually wearing leather and tutus. Smoking.
Female musicians I encountered at an early age were never shown in videos or pictures with children in tow.

So no small wonder that as I approached my mid-thirties I entered a conflicted baby conundrum. If I had kids, would I turn into a boring, irrelevant, ignorable artist? Would I suddenly start writing songs about balance and shit? Would I have a sudden, terrifying, interest in the LUTE?
Would I become that annoying person who is so enthralled with their child that it’s impossible to have an intelligent conversation with them about art because they’d rather show you iPhone photos of their kid drooling out a spoonful of mashed carrots? This all made me really afraid.

It didn’t help matters that I’d built a traveling artist’s life that I loved, a well-oiled bohemian existence of couchsurfing and wonder and friends and improv in which I ran my own business and nobody could boss me around. Not to mention finding a supportive husband, Neil, who came equipped with three older children from another marriage, and who was just as happy to have more children as not.
It also didn’t help that some my own elders had begun saying irritating things like:

Which is, simply put, total bullshit. I’d learned, through my honest, intimate friendships with older people, that that simply was not true. Some of my mentors, artistic or not, were and are childless and the happiest, most fulfilled and enlightened people I know. I’ve learned from them that children do not innately make you happy and fulfilled: only you can do that, and to shuffle the responsibility onto a kid is actually a pretty cruel thing to do.
I watched my biological window start closing with a kind of paralytic dread, knowing that my womb and my soul were going to get crushed if I didn’t make a wholehearted decision one way or the other.
So, as you know, I went for it.
I wasn’t sure I was doing the right thing, or even that there was a right thing to do. I just did it, really hoping that the ol’ “jump and the net shall appear” cliché would manifest into a net and not a black hole.
And right now, at 36 weeks pregnant, all I can do is look at the female heroes who’ve preceded me and NOT descended into crappy boringness and pray to the holy trinity: Patti…Ani...Björki…hear my prayer. May I not get fucking boring.



So, dear Worried, you can see why your email stirred my darkest fears. I’m worried too. Probably more worried than you, because, I have to live with me all the time. And soon, I’ll have to live with this baby all the time. All while trying to not lose my art-self.
And, honestly, if this baby really winds up acting as a crippling, muse-killing, inspiration-sucker who saps the life out of my music rendering it totally bland…well…just tiptoe away, and leave me in my balanced, bland and happy misery.
As to your worry about whether or not this is a scam to crowdfund an infant: it can be confusing about where the lines of asking and taking should be drawn.
Let me tell you a story, one that I was going to include in “The Art of Asking” book (it wound up on the cutting room floor with 100,000 other words.)
Last year I stumbled across an open letter from Eisley, a female-fronted indie band from Texas, who’d tried to raise $100k on kickstarter so they could afford to accept a slot to support a far bigger band on tour.
Some people were confused, but I understood those logistics: when my band, The Dresden Dolls, were offered the opening slot for Nine Inch Nails in the summer of 2005, we chose to go into a financial hole in order to say yes. Our nightly paycheck covered about a third of what it cost to hire a crew and keep up with their tour buses, and we lost thousands of dollars. It’s a financial decision I’ve never regretted; I still meet fans, years later, who found me on that tour and have stuck with me ever since. Those things pay off.
Unfortunately Eisley didn’t reach their Kickstarter goal (so it went completely unfunded, as per the all-or-nothing Kickstarter model); but they went on the tour anyway and there was an angry backlash from their fans, who accused them of acting dishonestly. The fans asked: “if you didn’t need the money to begin with…why did you crowdfund??” Two of the members of the group were planning to bring their babies on tour, a fact that got dragged into the whole kerfuffle. Eisley defended themselves in an open letter, pointing out they’d managed to borrow the money from their families and their label, and they defended themselves specifically against people accusing them of tastelessly begging for money for baby formula, with the rebuttal that all their babies were breastfeeding…and thus weren’t planning to spend a dime of that crowdfunding money on baby formula.
But honestly? Why shouldn’t they buy baby formula with that money? It’s just there on the list of stuff they need to survive on tour, up there with everything else like gas, food, and capital to print t-shirts. It would be a like a diabetic singer promising her fans that she wasn’t going to spend her Kickstarter tour money on insulin.

When you’re a crowdfunding artist, it shouldn’t matter what your choices are as long as you’re delivering your side of the bargain — the art, the music. It shouldn’t matter whether you’re spending money on guitar picks, rent, printer paper, diapers, college loans, or the special brand of organic absinthe you use to find your late-night muse…. as long as art is making it out the other side and making your patrons happy.

The money we need to live is often indistinguishable from the money we need to make art. We need all sorts of stuff to make art with. MAYBE I EVEN NEED THIS BABY TO MAKE ART. Who knows?
As to your question about the timing of all this…no, it wasn’t schemed. I’ve been intending to use patreon since it was founded two years ago, because I love the idea of giving my fans a way to just pay me whenever I actually release content, instead of relying on a tired, outdated system of making one big-old fashioned record every couple of years. It feels way more sane, actually, as the impending unpredictability of parenthood approaches, to be able to work whenever I’m inspired and can make the time, instead of working on the forced, binge-and-purge, feast-or-famine cycle that I was stuck on when I was on a major label who didn’t care much about my quality of life.
I love the idea of getting paid for my work, when I work, by the people who want me to work. (Like you. Unless you stop wanting it. Which is fine. We’re in an open relationship. You can leave anytime. You can even come back. I’m fine with that.)
And if you already think that my output is getting too weird, or too dull: at least you don’t have to worry that the baby will turn me into one of those obnoxious songwriters who picks up a ukulele and…let’s just admit that I clearly jumped the ukulele shark years ago, and it was REALLY liberating. Though, honestly, if what you’re waiting around for is “the really gritty, complex, emotional good stuff…”…I’ll be really surprised if pushing a SMALL HUMAN OUT OF MY VAGINA doesn’t also rip my heart open and provide some really, profound new artistic perspectives. It might take me a second to recover from you know, childbirth, before I start writing again, but just give me a second. Don’t strangle me if I decide to go into labor without a notebook in my hand, jotting down inspirational lyrics.
In closing, dear Worried, if you really are worried about me, and you are with me in sensitive camaraderie, I humbly ask one thing:
please don’t terrify and jinx me right now.
Not when I’m just about to jump into this net that I’m praying will appear to catch me, my art, and this baby…all at the same time.
I love you,
Amanda
This piece was initially drafted for BBC’s “Fourthought”….you can hear me reading the first draft of it at the Hay Literary festival, live for a radio-studio audience in the BBC tent, here.
For the curious and/or supportive, here’s the link to my patreon: https://www.patreon.com/amandapalmer…if you’d like to join, friday will hopefully bring to your inbox the full backstory, gallery and time-lapse documentary of the library-statue project made by my longtime friend and collaborator, filmmaker Michael Pope. The Dad Record will be coming sometime this winter or spring. The patrons are going to help me determine how to release it.
And you’ve never heard my music, here’s a primer: http://amandalanda.amandapalmer.net/
Thank you for reading, I hope the discussion continues. And thanks, Medium.

*photo care of http://www.elegantlypregnantafrica.co.za/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/Ways-to-Help-Get-Pregnant.jpg?e96983
performer, writer, giver, taker, yeller, listener, love-lover, rule-hater…my book “THE ART OF ASKING” is out now: http://bit.ly/AFPweb.
I’m going to tell you a secret. There is a skill you can master which will guarantee everything you do will improve by at least 50%, but probably more like 100%, and more over time.
The best part about this skill is that it’s easy. Anyone can obtain it. You don’t need to have any particular natural talent. You don’t need any resources or teachers to master it. Once you have it and it becomes a part of your every operation you will begin to achieve at an accelerating rate. Your success will compound and your reputation will bring you more opportunities.
In the words of Morpheus, “Do you want to know what it is?”
That’s it. Read it again. Let it sink in.
What does it look like in practice? Responding to emails immediately, and never taking longer than 24 hours to do so. Showing up for everything you’ve said you’d show up for. Finishing everything you’ve said you’d finish and on time. When you say “I’ll read that book,” or “I’ll check out that website,” or “I’ll send my resume,” doing it. Immediately. If you can’t or won’t, don’t say those things. Every time you say you’ll do something and don’t, you’ve missed an opportunity to be better than the majority of your peers and build social capital.
In 90% of situations I’d take someone with coherent same-day responses to all communications who always delivers as promised and when promised over someone with mastery over just about any skill I can think of. I’m not alone in this. The desperate need for hard working, reliable people who communicate immediately all the time is off the charts.
If you make people wait for responses or wonder if you’ll ever follow through, you’ve cost them, even if only psychologically. People don’t tend to want to work with people who cost them — they want to work with people who they never have to expend any mental energy worrying about. They want to work with people who pleasantly surprise them by over-delivering.
Anyone can be the person who always follows through, always communicates, always delivers, and never leaves anyone hanging or in the dark. It’s only a matter of will and discipline.
Just get stuff done.
Isaac Morehouse is an entrepreneur, thinker, and communicator dedicated to the relentless pursuit of freedom. He is the founder and CEO of Praxis, an intensive one-year program combining real-world business experience with personal coaching, professional development projects, and interdisciplinary education for those who want more than college.
Originally published as “The Secret Skill That Beats All the Rest” at www.discoverpraxis.com on May 22, 2015.
Founder & CEO of Praxis
Where unconventional paths in entrepreneurship, personal development, and education meet.
At Appbot we get to see a lot of app icons while providing insights into app reviews.
In the past I have studied everything from app descriptions, to screenshots, to names, to countries. The one that has always really interested me most was app icons, but I never came up with an idea on how to really study what is effective.
Recently I stumbled across a cool Ruby library called Miro that extracts the dominant colors from an image.
Finding the dominant colors of apps shows some really interesting results.

Next I took the standard Web Colors (plus added yellow) and matched each web color to the closest. This grouped them into approximate names.
#02601e -> Green#a8120c -> Maroon#0c44de -> Blue#bdbfc0 -> Silver#f4b510 -> Yellow#717973 -> Gray#24721b -> Green#2d0d0e -> Black

Ignoring black, white & grey and taking the four most common colors I plotted them on the a ‘Color Wheel’.
The large size of the icon represents a larger percentage of the icon containing that color.


Plotting the top 200 free apps on the Color Wheel gives us:
We find large clusters of blue and red app icons, with a scattering of green. Pink and purple is under represented, with Snapchat owning yellow.

The top 200 paid iOS apps differ slightly from free.
Although there are similar groupings of blue, red and green to that of free, paid apps generally appear to use more colors with less having one color on the majority of the icon. This results on more of a spread and smaller icons on our Color Wheel.

Next I plotted the newest 100 iOS apps released to the App Store at the time of writing. The assumption was that this would give a more general representation of the overall store than the top charts.
This gave very similar results to that of the top paid charts.

All social networking apps are blue aren’t they? Twitter, Facebook etc.
Turns out the clusters are similar to all categories, if anything green is more represented.

Many games tend to have more complex icons than applications. This sees more of a spread in colors used.

It’s always felt that 90% of the apps in my OS X dock are blue, but is that the way it turns out in the top charts for Mac?
Turns out blue is similarly represented as it is on iOS, with also a lot of icon using red and green.

Graham from MacStories had a great suggestion on plotting the major color of an app against it’s chart position. I tried it for the top 100 free apps.
The larger the icon the higher up the charts the app was.

After posting the original copy of this article I had a bunch of requests for Google Play comparisons. My results are from the Australian store.
Looks pretty similar to me :)

For comparison to iOS.

This should really come down to your app, what it does and your target audience. However, maybe you fit into one of these three categories.
You like to follow the crowd, so go for blue or red.
Maybe you can go green, not the most popular, but you still aren’t being too risqué.
You laugh at the conformists, scoff at those who think they are different. Go for pink or purple and wear it like you own it.
I’m writing an eBook called “Secrets of the App Store”. Join my mailing list to download it first or follow me on Twitter @stuartkhall.
If you enjoyed this please help me out and recommend it. Why not check out Appbot while you are at it :)
Thanks for reading!
Stuart
Founder & Chief Bot @AppbotX
All about Growth Hacking, Mobile Marketing & Data Analytics

Tudo que eu queria era chegar logo em casa. A chuva fina que caia fez com acontecesse o de sempre: os taxis de São Paulo foram teleportados pro mesmo lugar pra onde vão os isqueiros e tampas de bic. Easy taxi! Nada. Nenhum taxista aceitou. 99. Nada. Merda. Impressionante, choveu os taxis daqui somem. Tenho certeza de que eles se reúnem todos em um barzinho pra esperar a chuva passar e rirem de nossas caras durante o processo.
Hum… tem o tal do Uber, né? Acho que tenho um voucher que recebi e… isso, R$ 20,00 de desconto. Aqui em São Paulo dá pra rodar umas duas quadras a 5km por hora. Vamos tentar. Instalando, cadastro e… é isso!
10 minutos e um carrão preto para na minha frente. Opa, que beleza, hein? Deve custar alguns anos de meu salário. Cheirinho de novo. Achei que só iria entrar em um carro desse em feirão de automóvel. Andar então…
- Boa tarde, senhor, muito bom poder atendê-lo. Pra onde vamos?- Boa tarde, amigo — educado o sujeito! — Pode seguir pela JK, vamos pegar a marginal.- Claro, senhor. A temperatura do carro está a seu agrado?- Sim, sim, obrigado.- A música lhe agrada? Tem alguma preferência?- Não, está ótima, pode deixar.
O sujeito está me tratando tão bem que estou achando que ele quer me comer. Porra, sabia que usar essas roupas de publicitário era roubada. Melhor eu dar bandeira de que não curto. E deixar claro que não tenho nada contra quem curte também.
- O senhor aceita um chocolate?- Quanto é?- É de graça, por favor, pode se servir.- De graça? — Opa, vou encher a mão aqui!
Rapaz… estranho isso. Sei lá, não estou acostumado com prestação de serviço assim não. Aqui em São Paulo quando um prestador de serviço lhe dá um sorriso pode conferir a conta novamente.
- Se quiser uma água tenho aqui e se precisar acessar a internet o veículo tem wi-fi.
Olha, que coisa… eu estava me sentindo um barão. É assim que um rico deve se sentir curtindo seu carrão com motorista. E tudo isso com R$ 20,00 de descon… CARALHO!!!! Que freiada foi essa? Puta merda! E que cace… ei!!!
- Desculpa, senhor, eles se jogaram na frente do carro!- Eles? Mas…
O que é isso?! Dezenas de sujeitos batendo no carro. Pancadas em todo canto. Ovos. Farinha. Que porra é essa!?!?! Os caras são… são… são taxistas!
- TAXISTAS, UNIDOS, JAMAIS SERÃO VENCIDOS! EI, UBER, VAI TOMAR NO RABO! O POVO NÃO É BOBO, QUER O TAXI NO COMANDO DE NOVO!
Palavras de ordem, turba violenta! Minha nossa! Eles estão tentando abrir as portas. Ei, calma, não, a porta não.
- Força aí nessa porta, Waldemar!- Segura aí, força, Roberval!- Opa, opa, abriu, abriu!!!- Tira o cara, tira o cara!
Me pegaram pelo colarinho, me tiraram do carro no braço! Porra, não tenho nada a ver com isso, só quero chegar em casa.
- Tá aqui, o passageiro tá na mão!- Quem tá na vez, quem tá na vez?!- Tonho é o da vez! Arrasta o cara, arrasta o cara!- É teu, Tonho, é teu!
Porra, esses putos estão me sequestrando é?!?!?
- Entra aí, compadre.- Mas que bosta é essa?- Livramos você desse motorista pirata, mermão, entra aí, vai logo!
Como se eu tivesse alternativa.
O coitado do motorista do Uber todo encolhido, os caras quebrando tudo. Que merda é essa. Me jogaram em um carro meia boca, cheirando a mofo e cigarro. O barulho lá de fora se misturava com a música gospel que tocava no som do carro e o chiado agudo do rádio da cooperativa.
- E aí, mano, vai pra onde? — Me perguntou um motorista com a camisa aberta até o umbigo, tipo Augustinho Carrara, e um palito na boca.
Sem opção, respondi.
- Vou pra Osasco e…- Ah, mano, Osasco? Nem fodendo, levo não, desce aí vai…

PS. Achei que inserindo chuva em uma CRÔNICA que acontece em São Paulo e terminando com esse final já deixaria claro se tratar de uma obra de ficção mas pelo jeito preciso ESCREVER isso porque tem gente que realmente não conseguiu perceber… vai lá, né…
Gostou do texto? Se gostou clica aí no “recommend”, logo abaixo, e ajude mais pessoas a conhecê-lo.
A primeira publicação brasileira no Medium. Uma produção colaborativa de histórias e tendências para instigar você!


This ultimate list is made for entrepreneurs, startups or anyone who want to become better in life and work. And i believe this will deliver some value or any value to someone or any one.
So let’s get started with free apps/tools today and make things happen!















































































































































If you liked this post, do click ♥ below and share with people around so others can enjoy this too.
Written by @terrytsang811, founder of entrepreneurguide.me — the awesome free guide for entrepreneurs, startups, freelancers, businesses and you. I also built plugins for WooCommerce and WordPress. To learn more and get in touch, visit http://terrytsang.com.
Entrepreneur . Business . Life
Sharing our ideas and experiences
We all love our coworkers, don’t we? Sure we do. Especially if one of them is reading over your shoulder right now.
But according to science, four out of five coworkers are annoying. There are many ways to deal with annoying coworkers, but obviously the most effective way is to picture them as rappers.
Picturing your coworkers as rappers makes you laugh and provides a helpful nickname that can be used when talking about them behind their backs. Here are a few.
When Two Cent asks if he can tell you what he thinks, it’s a rhetorical question. So, you play along and say yes, then sit there nodding. It doesn’t matter if it’s an email he wasn’t originally sent or a meeting he wasn’t originally invited to, he’s always there and ready to share his thoughts.
No matter what you do, you can’t get this coworker out of his cubicle. He skips meetings, he skips lunch, he sometimes even skips going home. If you approach his cubicle, he treats you like an alien from some faraway planet, which is exactly how you feel about him.
Like clockwork, you get an email from this coworker every Monday, Wednesday and/or Friday morning saying he’s working from home. You’ve started using his desk for cupcake parties.
If this coworker is already overloaded with work, why does he keep volunteering for more? Probably because he loves complaining that he worked all weekend and hasn’t slept in days.
No one expects perfection, except Nit Picky Minaj. No matter how hard you try to distract her with glaringly obvious mistakes, she skips past those and points out 10 ridiculously tiny things that no one else will care about.
EmineMBA is scheduling meetings for 8am, writing 20 page documents, and always wants to “pick your brain”. The summer never seemed so long.
You want to do it your way? Try again. Young Buck the System will never follow the process you set up, even if it did take you a year to do. You try to teach him a lesson or two, but no matter what you do, nothing gets through.
With Snoop Snoopy Dog, you need a screen protector for your screen protector. Whenever he’s near, his eyes are darting from your laptop to your phone to your tablet and back again. He should just take a picture, and there’s a good chance he has.
Young Sneezy is ill, but not in a good way. You tell him to go home, but he says he’s fine. Between sneezes and coughs, he’s touching your chair, your keyboard and your monitor, which explains why your desk smells like anti-bacterial soap.
Where’s the fire? There is no fire, but he’s in a rush anyway. He won’t wait for you to get off the phone before he starts talking, get out of the conference room before he’s starting his own meeting, or finish your sentence before he’s already replied to the email.
If you enjoyed this, follow The Cooper Review on Facebook!
Related: 14 Rap Lyrics You Can Use on Your Conference Call Today
Originally published at thecooperreview.com.
Comedy from the soul of my brain. Creator of http://TheCooperReview.com and author of upcoming book, 100 Tricks to Appear Smart in Meetings (October 2016)
Satire for Your Life Cereal
If you want people to like you, be 100% comfortable in your own skin. Hands down, there’s no more attractive quality than a person who is utterly comfortable with who they are. This quality transcends physical appearance, intelligence, education, income or personality. It is the cornerstone of success in business and in life.
Now, would you like the good news or the bad news?
The bad news, as you already suspect, is that your internal life is insanely complicated. Maybe your mother didn’t let you play with toys until you were 11, so you have low self-esteem. Maybe you grew up in the Pacific northwest and only saw the sun on every third Thursday, so you tend towards gloom and doom.
Maybe you are just brutally honest with yourself and have recognized that your hair isn’t quite as soft and supple as your most popular colleagues at work.
Just because I say “be comfortable in your own skin” doesn’t mean that — POOF! — you can instantly do it.
Now for the good news: your internal “comfort level” is not fixed; you can change it.
In the spirit of complete disclosure, if today you are insecure and self-critical, overnight you are not going to change into George Clooney. But you can certainly move in the right direction, and the more that you do, the more other people will like you.
To make progress, you need to do three things:
1.) Accept your qualities you cannot change. Don’t waste any psychic energy on all that stuff I said up top, such as how your parents raised you or whether your feet are too large. (If this is a sensitive point for you, I apologize and mean no offense.) By definition, being comfortable in your own skin means accepting your vulnerabilities as well as your strengths. For example, I have the skinniest ankles of any grown adult male you have ever seen, and it doesn’t bother me one whit.
2.) Recognize your ability to change is FAR greater than you once thought. You can’t change your height, but you can change how hard you work, how grateful you are for your blessings, how open you are to new ideas, how you approach difficult challenges, and how willing you are to pay the price for what you most want in life. This does not mean change is easy; it means change is possible.
3.) Be persistent. It takes time to build both confidence and competence. Invest the time, even on days when you feel as though you are sliding backward. Can you become utterly self-assured in a week? Nope. Can you do it over several years? Probably. Can you do it over a decade? Absolutely.
Why does this work?
To generalize a bit, no one likes incoherent thinking. We hate it when an attractive person complains about being unattractive. We dislike hearing someone make empty promises over and over again. Although we may not understand exactly what’s happening, we are not attracted to people who have obvious internal conflicts.
Or at least I’m guessing that’s what happens. All I know for sure is that most folks love people who accept who they are. You know what I mean: we’ve all seen people with obvious limitations utterly charm a room because they focus on their blessings rather than on their curses.
Personally, I’ve learned a lot about this subject by watching actors. How is it that Paul Giamatti can appear to be either totally charismatic and self-confident or weak and a total loser?
In 2001, the New York Times called Giamatti “an avatar of averageness: medium height and medium build, a little pale and unathletic-looking, with a receding hairline and not much of a chin.”
I’m no head-turner, but I can compete with that. Or maybe not. Here’s the rest of the NYT paragraph from which I lifted the above quote:
…his intense, friendly, nebbishy manner — he might remind you of Wallace Shawn or Woody Allen — along with his elastic features and infectious laugh have made him, if not a household name, at least one of the most employable supporting players in the business.
14 years later, Giamatti pretty much is a household name. This is a triumph of talent and confidence. He doesn’t have leading man looks, but his IMDB filmography just goes on and on and on.
When I have a bad week, I’m sometimes tempted to watch a big Hollywood star playing a complete loser. Think of Michael Douglas in Falling Down, where he plays an unemployed defense worker. The guy seems like such an average, pitiable loser… but in the back of my mind, I know he’s married to Catherine Zeta-Jones and that the two are Hollywood royalty.
Such a performance demonstrates that being comfortable in your own skin is not a function of how your skin looks; it is a function of what you believe inside.
My greatest lesson in life, bar none, is that people have a much greater ability to change than most recognize. So you have two choices.
If you like this article, please recommend it to help others find it!
Ghostwriter. LinkedIn Influencer. Skier. Will cross street to pat a dog. Check out my Day Old Lessons at http://www.kasanoff.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

Hi, my name is Isis. I’m a full-stack engineer at OneLogin. They asked me to be one of four others participating recruiting campaign that was hastily planned and executed in 1 day. I was not personally ready for the amount of attention that it has brought me.
I doubt that most of you know me. I am a passionate self-taught engineer, extreme introvert, science-nerd, anime-lover, college dropout, hip hop dancer, yoga teacher/hoop-dance teacher, really authentic friend and HUMAN(omg?!). In fact, if you knew me you would probably know that being famous is one of my biggest nightmares; seriously right up there with falling into a porta potty. I keep to myself most of the time and generally prefer when others mind their own business too.
I’m pretty blown away at the amount of attention my ad particularly has received. Friends have messaged me screenshots of their friends(who don’t know me) who have posted photos of it followed by discussion threads where it has received both positive and negative attention. Some of the responses warm my heart while others I consider to be kind of shocking… I will continue to post various threads that people send me on both sides of that spectrum.
I didn’t want or ask for any of this attention, but if I can use this to put a spotlight on gender issues in tech I consider that to be at least one win. The reality is that most people are well intentioned but genuinely blind to a lot of the crap that those who do not identify as male have to deal with. To list just a couple personal experiences:
I would like to add that both men responsible for these unfavorable experiences are not bad people. They are both socially-accepted, “smart” and “normal” guys. This illustrates one of the industry’s deep underlying issues. There is a significant lack of empathy and insight towards recognizing that their “playful/harmless” behavior is responsible for making others inappropriately uncomfortable. This industry’s culture fosters an unconscious lack of sensitivity towards those who do not fit a certain mold. I’m sure that every other woman and non-male identifying person in this field has a long list of mild to extreme personal offenses that they’ve just had to tolerate. I’m not trying to get anyone in trouble, fired or ruin anyone’s life. I just want to make it clear that we are all humans, and there are certain patterns of behavior that no one should have to tolerate while in a professional environment.
The negative opinions about this ad that strangers feel so compelled to share illustrate solid examples of the sexism that plagues tech.
“Caitlyn, when you were a man, we could talk about your athleticism, your business acumen,” Stewart said. “But now you’re a woman, which means your looks are really the only thing we care about.”
At the end of the day, this is just an ad campaign and it is targeted at engineers. This is not intended to be marketed towards any specific gender — segregated thoughts like that continue to perpetuate sexist thought-patterns in this industry.
As for the comments about the ad… Is it so unheard of that I genuinely care about my teammates? Some people think I’m not making “the right face”. Others think that this is unbelievable as to what “female engineers look like”. News flash: this isn’t by any means an attempt to label “what female engineers look like.” This is literally just ME, an example of ONE engineer at OneLogin. The ad is supposed to be authentic. My words, my face, and as far as I am concerned it is.
I didn’t ask for any of this attention, and I’m rather uncomfortable with all of it. I’m just a human and I prefer to keep my life simple/reserved, but it blows my mind that my fully-clothed smiling face with unbrushed hair and minimal makeup on a white wall is seemingly more controversial in some communities than this simply because of my gender:
Do you feel passionately about helping spread awareness and increase tech diversity?
Do you not fit the “cookie-cutter mold” of what people believe engineers “should look like?”
If you answered yes to any of these questions I invite you to help spread the word and help us redefine “what an engineer should look like”. #iLookLikeAnEngineer

My stories have become such a source of inspiration for so many people. I am now developing a team to build out www.ilooklikeanengineer.com, a safe platform for us all to continue to share our stories and experiences relating to diversity issues in tech. If you are a UX designer or know Ruby on Rails/Backbone and would like to help contribute, we would love to have you on board. Please reach out at the information provided on the landing page.
Some pretty amazing people, spearheaded by my co-workers wonderful wife Michelle, have joined together to make this movement make a lasting impact. I kind of fell backwards into all of this, but I really want to do everything I can to use the position that I am in to help make a positive impact. When this is all in the past, I would like to have created a larger impact on the community than simply generating a Twitter presence. Spreading awareness is the first step, but I want to help facilitate concise plans of action so we can create a genuine change. If you have any personal input and advice that you think could help make a difference please feel free to share it with me at isis@ilooklikeanengineer.com. You can help support us by checking out:

http://www.eventbrite.com/e/ilooklikeanengineer-with-isis-wenger-tickets-18026391422
Who knew one blog post could ignite such a profound movement? It can be very alienating to not fit a standard mold. Our goal is to bring together a diverse group of like-minded people from technology and science for a fun evening filled with activities, mingling and sharing our voices.
@isisAnchalee
*I give permission for press to use the material from this post*
Hoops and loops. Disrupting your sea of homogeny.
Home to some of the best articles on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.
It’s easy to fantasize about building a startup and making it big, but it’s much harder to turn those dreams into a reality. The media and entertainment industries have glamorized the process, neatly trimming the hard times of entrepreneurship to fit into feature length films and buzzy posts on social media. But for every story of a college kid turned billionaire, there’s an unsung hero hustling hard under the radar whom we can actually relate to. This is the story of how Ryan Graves helped build Uber.
Ryan started with a lot of hustle. He didn’t think he had any kind of intellectual capacity over anyone else that would set him apart. He’s not an engineer and wasn’t a great student. However, when he got to college, he realized the only way he was going to be successful was to out hustle everyone else. So that’s what he did. His grades picked up, and he began to develop a passion for hard work.
Ryan began putting career decisions first and soon found himself working at General Electric (GE). While at GE, however, he had an itch to build something himself. At GE, it was common to stay at the company your entire career and receive the gold watch upon retirement. Ryan didn’t want that. He wanted to start and grow something from scratch and try to make a dent in the world.
SocialDreamium was his side project while working at GE. It was essentially TweetDeck, and a short-lived project, but helped him gain product experience as a founder. With his co-founder, he wrote specs for products and sold them while wearing all the hats that startup founders do. It was an unsuccessful company, but it gave him the entrepreneurial outlet he needed while he was working at GE to feel alive.
If you’ve been following Uber over the past four or five years, this is the part of the story you’re probably familiar with: Ryan really wanted to get out of GE and work at a startup. His next attempt to break into startups was with Foursquare. After unsuccessfully applying several times, Ryan went door-to-door to bars and restaurants and convinced 30 prospects to run mayor deals on Foursquare. He sent his work to the company and was able to get an introduction to Dennis Crowley, who set him up with an internship at Foursquare.
While on Twitter one day, Ryan noticed a tweet from Travis Kalanick: “Looking for PM killer. Any tips?” Ryan was hustling and following Travis because he knew Travis was tapped into Silicon Valley and investing in companies. So Ryan followed up with: “Here’s a tip: email me,” and gave Travis his email. That was how he met Travis and Garrett. He flew out to New York to meet Travis and Garrett, and was finally able to capitalize on putting himself in the right position; he had a story to tell and Travis bought it. Ryan joined Travis and Garrett in getting ready to launch what was then called UberCab, eventually moving to San Francisco and growing Uber. It was all because of hustle, putting himself in the right position, and meeting as many people as possible.
Uber is killing it and Ryan’s there because he met Travis on Twitter. Travis isn’t the only person Ryan has met on Twitter; Ryan has made a lot of things happen on the platform. It’s not uncommon in the tech scene to meet people you would never have access to otherwise through Twitter. When you don’t have anything, you just have to hustle your ass off, and Twitter is one of the best ways to leverage your efforts.
Creating a successful startup means solving a problem in a scalable and profitable way. You can’t just go out there and talk to your users and do every single thing they want. You need to start with a problem. The problem Travis and Garrett found was very clear. The majority of incoming taxi requests on a Friday and Saturday night in San Francisco went completely unanswered. Clearly there was a problem there. Travis and Garrett developed a very elegant and simple solution for users (which hides a number of features on the back end that are quite complex) based on a real problem they personally experienced and were frustrated about. They scratched their own itch.
As you’re starting a company, not only do you need to be pretty excited about solving a problem, but you also must have a problem to solve. It’s easy to build another app because you can, chase the next social thing, or try becoming the next Uber for x, Airbnb for y, or Product Hunt for z, but there are a lot of real problems that are less sexy that have yet to be addressed. So find a problem and go after it.
Being an optimist in a startup environment can be difficult because everything is working against you. Building a company is like being in a boxing ring: you always need to be on your toes and you’re always getting clocked. People always think things aren’t going to work and that’s why, most of the time, things aren’t done.
It’s common for people to walk up to Ryan and say, “Oh man, I had the idea for Uber a few years ago. I did the research, but everybody said it couldn’t be done, so it didn’t make sense to do it.” As Ryan would think: maybe it doesn’t make sense. But the reason Uber exists now is because they believed it could be done and they were irrationally optimistic that they could get it done, and as a result, other people believed them too. Optimism breeds solutions. (Tweet)
It’s not fun to stay in on a Friday night when everyone else is out, but Ryan embraced this in ways many of us wouldn’t. Early on at Uber, Ryan spent his New Year’s Eves staring at Godview and making sure everything was working correctly. He wasn’t out throwing back champagne and partying it up. He was frantically on the phone with drivers and clients. He embraced personal sacrifice during a critical time in the business because he believed it would pay off. If you’re willing and able to do that, it’s going to set you off in the right direction.
Here’s a little more insight into this New Year’s Eve example. Ryan’s New Year’s Eve starts at 11:00pm, December 30th in San Francisco (6:00pm, December 31st in Sydney, Australia). Ryan and his team don’t stop working until 5:00am, January 1st in San Francisco. It’s basically a 30-hour marathon.
With all that being said, Ryan notes that you must take care of yourself. The media glorifies not sleeping and not taking vacations in startup life. It’s ok to realize that you do need to sleep and you do need to occasionally take a day off to recharge. No sleep isn’t cool. If you’re not well rested, then you’re not going to have the endurance to handle the biggest problems that are thrown at your company; you’re not going to have the energy to keep coming back at it after continually getting knocked down. Take care of yourself and have an outlet. When you take a weekend off and come back from that break, you are refreshed and excited to dig back in and take on the hard issues. Burnout does nothing to move your startup forward and undoes your previous sacrifices.
As an entrepreneur, there’s a ton of crazy ups and downs. You need to be able to talk to someone about what’s going on. When Ryan got off the phone with Travis from that initial tweet about Uber, he was so pumped. It was 1:30 in the morning, but his wife stayed up with him during the call and was totally supportive and happy for Ryan.
So Here’s the Kicker….
We’ve never actually met Ryan. We’ve never been to one of his interviews or his speaking engagements. We don’t personally know anybody that knows Ryan. We’re using the same hustle and grind that he’s used throughout his career to collect his advice here so more people can learn from him the same way we have.
Surprisingly, there’s not too much information about Ryan online. We scoured the internet and read every article that mentioned his name. We found several videos of Ryan and even found some old videos of him interviewing other entrepreneurs for a video blog he started in the mid 2000s (he actually interviewed Andrew Mason during the time when Groupon was called The Point). Lastly, we hunted through every single one of his tweets and direct messaged or cold emailed anyone that had a conversation with Ryan on Twitter to ask if they could provide us some information about him for this article. Most people didn’t respond, but we got enough responses to pull things together.
If you’re reading this, you know how much of a rat race Silicon Valley is. Outside of the Valley we constantly hear people tell us that it’s only about luck and timing. However, we believe that the Ryan Graves’ of the world would still be successful even if one of their initial companies didn’t work out. A quote attributed to Louis Pasteur says “Fortune favors the prepared mind.” People like Ryan Graves hustle, research, and prepare to know their industries and markets so well, that when the timing is right, they pounce on an opportunity and don’t look back.
So Ryan, we’re huge fans of your story (even if no one makes a movie about you, but they should) and we wanted to say thank you for showing us how to hustle and grind.
Co-authored by Danny Minutillo and Gabe Marcial
Find Gabe at gmarcial@tradecrafted.com or Twitter: @gabetheory
Find Danny at dminutillo@tradecrafted.com or Twitter: @danny_minutillo
Growth @Tradecraft | Excited about consumer tech and very early stage startups. Reach me at dminutillo@tradecrafted.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?



Got a graph/chart request? put it in the notes, or feel free to Tweet or throw it at Facebook. (Or you can find more over on Instagram)
I also have a desk for sale…
…and I write things when I'm not drawing things. Mostly about failing to do things, like this or like this other time.
Part 2 can be found here.
I write stuff, draw stuff, design stuff, build stuff. https://instagram.com/instachaaz/

When you’re a creative, unless you’re lucky enough to have a book deal or a paid publishing gig, you don’t have a lot of accountability. It’s a very privileged freedom, but it’s a freedom we pay for.
It means that most of the time, the world will keep spinning if you drop off the planet and never finish another piece of work. And it also means that you are the only one who can make you finish anything.
Because if you don’t push yourself, every day, to wake up and look in the mirror and ignore the feeling of near exhaustion that comes with balancing creativity and life itself, you could die without finishing anything.

There’s no end of examples of startup founders and rock stars and YA authors who have made absolute bank and never have to work another day in their lives. I wish I was one of them, believe me.
By all means, plan to make money. Work to make money. Capitalise financially on whatever success you have.
But if you want to build or create something of honesty and integrity, whether that’s a startup or an album of Japanese noise music, you have to be able to put aside that focus on getting rich.

We all want people to understand us, and understand our work, and understand what drives us. On some levels, the act of building something is an attempt to communicate in our own language. That could be an app, a line of code, or a book.
It’s going to get frustrating, and you’re going to want to scream.
You might even feel persecuted when people get the wrong end of the rope and try to hang you with it. Does it matter? No way. All that matters is that you listen to what drives you and you create what needs to be created.

Businesses can take a while to catch on, apps aren’t always an instant hit, and I’ve got news for the writers out there — even Kim Kardashian can’t sell more than 30,000 copies of a book. Most of us won’t be able to make a living off what we build right away. That’s where having a job comes in.
When all you want to do is work on your own project and create something that matters, it’s frustrating to have to set it aside every day and focus on the work that will make you money. The work that will pay the bills. The office job with the business suit or the 9-hour shift in a uniform you hate wearing.
But I challenge anyone to show me a job from which you can’t learn something. I flipped Burgers at McDonald’s for 5 years when all I wanted to do was paint skateboards, code websites and tour with a succession of shitty bands. It taught me how to manage people, how to manage my time, how to serve customers, and how to surprise and delight people when they don’t expect it.

The best thing I have ever written, in my honest opinion, is a 5-page short story about my experiences playing punk rock and hanging out with my best friends before life drove us apart. I love it, and I’m proud of it. Every now and then when I read through it, I honestly feel like I haven’t achieved the same raw emotion in anything I’ve created since.
Unfortunately, everyone I have shown it to can’t stand that piece of writing. They just can’t.
When John Romero made the video game Daikatana, he was creating the game that he dreamed of playing. Almost everyone hated it. I don’t know how he feels about it now or if he’s still as proud of it as he was when he first made it, but I do know that it was widely reviled.

There’s a flip-side to number 5. The work that you always felt let you down, the pieces and the concepts and companies that never quite lived up to your dreams could be what you are remembered for. You want to know why?

With the internet where it is, there’s no reason why you can’t turn what you build into at least a minor revenue stream. How? You treat it like a business. This is something I plan to expand on in a future post, but what it really comes down to is that…
You can take whatever creative work you are pursuing and turn it into a business if you try hard enough. But you have to treat it like a business. Have a product, have a marketing plan, and understand how to grow revenue. Read the $100 startup. Read almost any book on startups. Don’t be a starving artist, be a businessperson with a flair for painting.

…In fact, they’ll probably celebrate. Most people talk about Richard Branson, Paul McCartney and J.K. Rowling as though they were gods. Most people talk about entrepreneurs and creatives in hushed tones and admire them for being courageous and innovative.
I’m not sure why this is. I wish I was. As a general rule, if we all lived our lives by what the majority of people wanted us to do, there’d be no end of engineers, lawyers and doctors and there’d never be another novel published.
So when you start to doubt your path (and you will) there’s a good chance your friends won’t tell you to stick to your guns.

This is something that I find difficult to accept. It doesn’t matter how good anything I create is, it only matters that I get it finished.

You’ll never be able to create your best work if you don’t publish any work. You’ll never turn your startup into Google if you never get it past a landing page with an email sign up form and a vague concept of an MVP.
Read that line again until you believe it.
Now read it again until you can think of a better way of phrasing it.
See? It wasn’t perfect.
You have to be able to put aside your fears and your nervousness and commit to publishing your work, posting your music and launching your concept. You have to, because if you don’t, you will never accomplish the things you want to accomplish. And your dreams will die. And you’ll probably turn into a real tool.


See Also: https://medium.com/the-unlisted/how-to-make-something-people-give-a-shit-about-83486f42118c

Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

For many years, Photoshop was an ultimate go-to tool for designing digital interfaces. From simple web pages up to complex native apps.
Was, because designers most used software becomes out of date. I’ve realised this after trying its rising competitors — Sketch 3 and Affinity Designer. Frankly speaking, it was probably the first time I worked with different software than Adobe on UI design. I must say it was a very refreshing experience.
I’ve tried a different perspective. Another approach to UI design workflow and I liked it. It was Sketch that changed my look at my process. Because it’s intended to work as an interface design tool, its core logic is way different than the PS.
It embraces focusing on the design as… how to say, on the product? For me, its workflow is much closer to the way software/websites are developed. It won’t let you treat your design as painting canvas of some sort.
This experience results in this story. I realised how much software we’re using influence our workflow logic. Right now we’re at the very exciting moment. Photoshop is getting old. It’s slow, its core code is heavily outdated and after all it was made as photo editor not interface design tool. Former champion became lazy and got fat. At the same time rebels appeared. But none of them is perfect.
We’re right before the biggest change on the UI design tools market since Fireworks. It’ll go one way or another. Adobe will release the killing design soft, written from the ground, or its competitors will take the market for themselves.
Let’s stop for a minute and think — how would The Perfect UI design software look like? What toolset would suit designers needs perfectly and make our workflows most efficient? Or even revolutionise the way we’re designing interfaces? You can find mine 14 must-haves.
One of the biggest problems of Photoshop is its greediness. PS eats your computer memory like a monster and nonetheless — works slow. I recently found it difficult to work with one website design on MBP retina from 2014 with 8GBs of RAM.
It’s obvious that making software that’s faster and lighter is possible. Both Affinity Designer and Sketch beats Adobe flagship on his head.
No one likes when few hours of hard work wastes when software crashes. It’s a real problem with today design software. I think none of the most popular solutions works well enough.
Affinity has its child-age problems and crashes a lot, especially when using transparency tool. Photoshop is stable as rope bridge. I didn’t work in Sketch for some time, so I can’t tell how it looks today, but I recall some frustrating crashes.
Sketch is a winner here. Photoshop wasn’t meant as UI design tool at all. It’s photo editor in its core after all (regardless many additions here and there). Adobe introduced a beta version of UI design workspace in PS but come on. First of all they cut way too many functionalities. Second, it looks for me like Winamp skin. We need a truly dedicated software.
Meanwhile, Affinity looks little better than photoshop on this field but lacks any measurement tools. You can’t tell the distance between objects or scale an object by demanded percent value.
Sketch is almost perfect. Almost because it has almost every single feature needed, but it’s interface could be designed to be more usable.

For me, it’s a must have in today world. We’re designing for many devices, for many screen resolutions. Ability to easily rescale our work is a must have. Fortunately, software developers think the same.
Every single app I mentioned allows to create vector based designs. My favourite here is Affinity with its non-destructive booleans. The least comfortable to use is Sketch. It has limited capabilities.
You’ll need from time to time. To adjust photo colors or make some changes to raster graphics you use without leaving the app. Photoshop capabilities here are almost limitless.
Affinity has an efficient set of tools for the most of tasks. Besides this, there’s also sister app from Serif: Affinity Photo, which works great with the Designer.
Unfortunately, Sketch is really bad in this field. It’s almost impossible to perform any raster-based tasks in it. You may say it has its cons — It forces you to think carefully before putting something into your design, but. Sometimes you need to make some changes on the go. Sketch is clear looser here.
It’s my great problem with Photoshop. When you scale pixel layer down it’s being compressed and loose quality. Unless you convert it to a smart object first. But smart objects are heavy, slows down your work, and for me, they’re made for different tasks.
They’re great when you design e.g. button. You’re creating an object with button design then and copy it wherever you need creating instances. When you change button color, it changes everywhere. Great! But why making additional smarts just not to lose image quality when scaling?
Affinity is great here. You can scale an image ten times, and it preserves start quality. It’s awesome. I was amazed when I discovered it. Then thought come, that it should be obvious… thanks, Adobe, I felt like stone-age relic because PS take on that.
and give you a possibility to preview it in pixels in real time. And it has retina pixel mode! How great. None of the competitors comes even close.
The case? for me every single design should be grid based.
Beside that they can enhance UX by creating predictable patterns for users to follow. Yes, they’re crucial.
I’d like to have a simple tool for generating grids. One that will calculate and distribute them based on my inputs. I’d also love support for grid breakpoints, something no one supports today.
Just watch how it works in Sketch. I’d like to see it everywhere!
I’ve recently written an article about typography rules for beginners. You can find it here. Though I’ve outlined only the basics none of the most modern UI design tools supports all functions needed. No options of custom word spacing, hanging punctuation and so on.
Artboards allow you to create fixed frames on the open canvas. If you’re creating a responsive web design or a mobile app for different devices, you may want to turn each screen size into an Artboard. They’re great. Artboards allow you also to use smart objects or symbols across the design. All the screens in one file. Very convenient! Today, only Affinity Designer isn’t able to pull them off. I hope it’ll change soon.
New apps coming to the market means greater segmentation. Not everyone will be using the same product, and different teams have different workflows. In one the designer will send PSD files to the developer, in the other designer will produce a pack of assets for the developer. That means that a great software have to export designers work in different formats.
I like what Affinity is doing. It allows you to import PSD files (pretty well!) and export your Affinity made designs to PSD also! It’s great. PSD format is a standard after all and, it’ll stay that way for a while.
The last thing is very simple. In both Photoshop and sketch you can just right-click on the object and copy its CSS properties. It’s that easy. Affinity Designer lacks this function. And it needs to catch up on it very soon!
There is no perfect solution available for designers today. Although perspectives are promising. Above I’ve presented my vision. Things that are crucial for me to work smoothly and efficiently. I’m really curious, what would you like to see in The Perfect UI design tool? What functionalities would make you a better designer?
Thank you for reading,
Tom is a Senior Web Designer at GOG.com and freelance Product Designer & Art Director at Pixology.
Do you like my story? Share or recommend it please, I’ll be very grateful!
Senior Web Designer at GOG.com. Freelance product designer, art director and founder at Pixology. Music and typo lover. Gamer. http://www.behance.net/tomkoszyk
Interaction / Product / User Experience / User Interface / Design
There are Chinese and Russian translations of this article,and there’s a follow-up with Principle, Flinto for Mac & Tumult Hype.
I recreated the IF by IFTTT user onboarding in five different high-fidelity prototyping tools to get an idea of the differences between them: Proto.io, Pixate, Framer, Facebook’s Origami and RelativeWave’s Form.
See how these five recreations behave compared to the real thing:

Why did I select these five? I discovered that recreating something that is this animation-heavy (icons moving around in different directions and at different speeds) is not even possible in most prototyping packages. The majority of tools only let you connect static pages, while only the more complex ones let you animate different objects or layers within a given page.
I’ll explain it a bit more.
In a page-based tool, you lay out different screens, and then you make hotspots or buttons to connect them together. You tap a button somewhere on one screen to go to another screen. Page-based tools generally also have a choice of different transitions between screens, like fade in, slide in from the right, slide up from below, etc. It’s a bit clunky, but it’s a good way to make quick mockups when you’re still figuring out the flow of an app (which and how many screens are needed, how they would appear, where buttons should go, etc.).
Examples of page-based tools are: Briefs, InVision, Notism, Flinto, Fluid, Mockup.io, Prott, POP, Marvel, Balsamiq, Red Pen and Keynotopia. Granted, in some of these tools you can have animations or scrollable areas within a page, but you cannot use them to emulate every interaction possible in real native apps.
Every asset, interface element, or in other words, layer can be made tappable, swipe-able, draggable… but also animated. Prototyping a complete app in a tool like this would be crazy, though; it would be too much work (you might as well build the real app). But they’re great for trying out new interactions, or for tweaking the timing of an animation.
Proto.io, Pixate, Framer, Facebook’s Origami and RelativeWave’s Form are the tools I tried. To be honest, there are a few others — Axure and Indigo Studio — but they seem to be more enterprisey (read: rather expensive). I might try them out some other time.
So, onwards with the chosen ones.

Proto.io is a surprisingly powerful web app; it has many, many functions. But because everything works by drag-and-drop, clicking buttons and selecting values from lists, it can be a bit overwhelming sometimes to find the setting you need.
Because of the nature of the IF prototype — different objects moving at different speeds — I had to add several custom JavaScript calculations. The provided single-line text field was too small for the lengthy calculations so to have an overview I kept them in a text file on my computer. Important to note is that these JavaScript expressions can fail without warning. Be sure to check the console of your web browser when something doesn’t work. (I had an error caused by a variable containing a negative value.)
This is rather annoying: you have to click [Save Project] and then [Preview] every time you want see the result of the changes you made.
Not many. The animations are less fluid, though, because I had to attach many interactions containing custom JavaScript calculations to the scrollview. It’s not too bad on the web, but it’s way too slow on a device. Playback speed seems to be more normal for simpler prototypes.
view on Proto.io Spaces (sign up to import it to your account)

iOS app:Proto.io
Android app:Proto.io Player
Price:$29/month or $288/year for 5 active projects.There are also plans for 10, 15 or 30 active projects, and a free 15-day trial.

Pixate seems to strike the right balance between ease of use and functionality: it can do a lot more than the simpler page-based tools, but the learning curve is not too steep: after going through the User Guide and video tutorials you will be on your way. There are also several demos that you can deconstruct to see how they’re made.
Pixate Studio can use Xcode’s iOS Simulator (on Mac) to run the prototype. You can also connect with the iOS or Android app over local WiFi. This works great, especially because both (Simulator + app) update instantly.
The sixth page is missing, because the canvas in Pixate is only so wide.
view in app | download .pixate file

Mac or PC application:Pixate Studio
Mobile apps:iOS | Android
Price:Pixate StudioFree! (It used to be $149, until Google bought Pixate in July 2015.)Pixate Cloud$5/user/month or $50/user/year. (There is a free 30-day trial.)

As you probably know, Origami is built by the design team at Facebook working on Paper. Origami is not a standalone program, it’s kind of a plug-in for Quartz Composer, a visual programming environment that is part of Apple’s developer tools.
You program in Quartz Composer by connecting patches to each other. Different patches have different functions, and Origami is mainly a set of extra patches made for app UI design. Many people (not me, though) will prefer this to having to write code, but when you have to describe something like “if this, then do that, with the value from this calculation, but if not…” you’ll still have to program, but by connecting several patches instead of writing lines of code.
On a side note: IDEO also created a prototyping framework based on Quartz Composer, called Avocado. It has a few functions that might be handy for some projects: Bluetooth integration, an iOS interactive keyboard, a dial patch for scroll wheel-like interactions and a flippable card patch. Layers can also be made draggable.
This is going to be difficult. You can of course make a screen-recording of your prototype, but this defeats the purpose of making an interactive prototype; you might as well make something in After Effects. The only real way to try a prototype on another machine is to have the same setup. So if your client uses a Mac, she can install Quartz Composer + Origami to run your prototypes — after registering as an Apple Developer, of course.
It might run a bit slower than the real thing, depending on your computer. Quartz Composer is quite a power hog, and might have your computer’s fan spinning, especially when your Mac doesn’t have a powerful graphics card (like my Mac mini) or have a few monitors connected (guilty). I get maximum 20 fps, even when using just one monitor.
download .qtz file

Mac application:install instructions
iOS viewer:Origami Live
Price:Free! You do need an Apple Developer account, but that’s also free, as in beer, or whatever Apple developers might drink.

No dragging and dropping, pushing buttons, or connecting dots here — in Framer you will have to code. Programmers will feel at home, designers maybe less so. But it’s not too hard — Framer Studio uses a simplified version of JavaScript: CoffeeScript. But the fact that the actual engine (Framer.js) uses JavaScript makes for a lot of possibilities: you can do everything that’s possible in a web browser, so you can connect to servers to use live data, or create a Twitter client that shows real-time tweets.
With one click you can generate a public page (like this one), which can be viewed in Chrome or Safari, or in a mobile browser. (The link can be added to the iOS home screen as an ‘app’.) The same link can also be opened in the viewers (actually just chromeless browsers) for iOS and Android. A big prototype like this one might take several seconds to load in the viewer, but then it animates smoothly.
This prototype does a bit more than the other four: you can switch between the Sign in, Sign up and Reset Password modes on the last page. (You cannot actually log in or sign up, but even that would have been possible to recreate in Framer.)
view online | download .framer project

Mac application:Framer Studio
iOS app:Frameless
Android app:Framer
Price:Framer.js, the JavaScript framework, is open-source and free.Framer Studio is $99. (There is a free 14-day trial)

Form is still very young (it launched September 2014) and is clearly inspired by what Facebook and IDEO are creating on top of Quartz Composer. The folks at RelativeWave probably thought, “How would Origami look without the Quartz Composer baggage?” Origami users will feel right at home; many patches are the same and Form contains only the patches you need.
The prototype actually runs in the (WiFi or USB) connected iOS app. You’ll notice that there is no readout of the values when double-clicking a connection between two patches if no device is connected. A viewer in the Mac application, like in Quartz Composer, would definitely be handy, and seems to be planned.
The (free) iOS viewer can open .form files, so you can just email the file to the client for them to run on their iOS device.
Not many, I think. Let me know if you find any.
download .form file

Mac application:Form
iOS app:Form Viewer
Price:Free! The Mac application used to be $79.99, but when Google bought RelativeWave last November (only months after launch) they made it free.

If you have not yet used any of these, and want some quick prototyping done:
But if you’re ready to invest time into learning a powerful tool:
I’ve gotten acquainted with all of them (at least a bit), so I might use different tools for different situations:
Update: There’s now a follow-up:

These tools are all very young, and we’re all still figuring out what the best way would be to do interaction design, but I see a great future for Framer. I like the versatility and performance of Framer a lot, and I’ve found the perfect excuse to play with it some more: I’m writing a book about Framer!
The Framer book will be a manual for people without any programming experience, starting with the basics of CoffeeScript. It will also contain a bunch of tutorials in which you rebuild popular apps. And the book will show you how to add real data to your prototypes using a Parse or FireBase backend, or plug in live data from services like Twitter, Flickr, Dribbble, etc…
Sign up on framerbook.com to receive an early-bird discount when the book is released.
Originally published at cptv8.com.
iOS dev & app prototyper (Dutch, English, Spanish, some Русский)
A collection of design stories, tips, articles, tutorials on Sketch and prototyping, and more design content. Curated by the Sketch App Sources team ☺
We get it. You’re morally superior to the rest of us. Please stop writing posts on Medium about it and go to bed.
Coffee, Power Pop, Software, Cat-eye Glasses, Femme, and Queer. I worry about identity. Shoegaze bands turned me into a girl.








(and when you are done, read the FAQ)
If you subscribe to a subscription music service such as Spotify or Apple Music you probably pay $10 a month. And if you are like most people, you probably do so believing your money goes to the artists you listen to. Unfortunately, you are wrong.
The reality is only some of your money is paid to the artists you listen to. The rest of your money (and it’s probably most of your money) goes somewhere else. That “somewhere else” is decided by a small group of subscribers who have gained control over your money thanks to a mathematical flaw in how artist royalties are calculated. This flaw cheats real artists with real fans, rewards fake artists with no fans, and perhaps worst of all communicates to most streaming music subscribers a simple, awful, message: Your choices don’t count, and you don’t matter.
If you love music and want your money to go to the artists that you listen to, consider this simple hack. It’s easy to do, breaks no laws, does not violate any terms of service, directs more money to your favorite artists, but doesn’t actually require you to listen to any music, and best of all, it could force the music industry to make streaming royalties fair(er) for everyone. Sounds good, right?
So let’s cut to the chase. Here’s the hack:This September, when you aren’t listening to music, put your favorite indie artists on repeat, and turn the sound down low.
You might be saying “Wait a second, turn the sound down? How the heck does that do anything?”
Good question, let me explain.
Streaming services (Spotify, Apple, etc.) calculate royalties for artists by putting all of the subscription revenue in one big pool. The services then take out 30% for themselves. The remaining 70% is set aside for royalties.
This giant bag of royalties is then divided by the overall number of streams (aka “plays” or “listens”). The result is called the “per-stream royalty rate”.
The problem lies in the fact that this “Big Pool method” only cares about one thing, and one thing only: the overall number of streams. It does not care even a tiny little bit about how many subscribers generated those streams.
So why is this bad?
Imagine a hypothetical artist on a streaming service. Which do you think that artist would rather have: 10,000 fans who stream a song once, or one fan who streams it 10,001 times? Seems obvious, right? 10,000 fans is much better than one fan! But the Big Pool method, which only cares about the number of clicks, says the single person is worth more!
The message to artists and fans is crystal clear: the only fans that matter are the ones who click a lot. Everyone else can suck it.
This is bad for the artist, but astoundingly it’s even worse for streaming services: if each subscriber is paying $10 a month then those 10,000 subscribers would generate $1.2M in annual revenue, while the single user only generates a measly $120. Clearly the services benefit from getting more subscribers, not more streams, so why are they incentivizing streams and ignoring subscribers?
Even more backwards, the Big Pool method encourages the acquisition of heavy-usage subscribers, who are the easiest customers to get and retain (in fact most “music aficionados” are already subscribers), but offers little for light-usage subscribers, who are not only the hardest customers to get and retain, but are more profitable (by not requiring as much bandwidth) and most importantly dramatically greater in number.
It’s as if a car dealership paid the biggest commissions to the employees who sold the fewest number of cheap cars, and completely stiffed the employees who sold lots of expensive ones!
If the Big Pool rewards artists who get lots of streams, major labels can sign artists who can get a lot of streams. But what if artists aren’t the only ones getting lots of streams?
Click fraud is rarely discussed in the context of streaming music, but it’s fairly simple for a fraudster to generate more in royalties than they pay in subscription fees. All a fraudster has to do is set up a fake artist account with fake music, and then they can use bots to generate clicks for their pretend artist. If each stream is worth $0.007 a click, the fraudster only needs 1,429 streams to make their $10 subscription fee back, at which point additional clicks are pure profit. But that’s assuming they even paid $10 for the subscription in the first place: it’s possible to purchase stolen premium accounts on the black market, making the scheme profitable almost immediately. The potential profits are substantial: At Spotify it only takes 31 seconds of streaming to trigger a royalty payment, which means as many as 86,400 streams a month can be generated, resulting in over $600 of royalties. At Apple Music the threshold is just 20 seconds, making it hypothetically possible to clear 129,600 streams and $900 in royalties in just one month!
Awareness of click fraud in streaming music is so widespread that developers make apps to facilitate it. The services will tell you they work hard to make their systems secure, they pay bounties for people to find bugs, and once in a while they even catch and ban click frauders. But security researchers are not impressed, many people are not getting caught, and ultimately we have to confront the simple fact that there is no such thing as a foolproof way to prevent click fraud.
If the amount of click fraud activity on Google, Facebook, and Twitter is any indication (estimated to be over $6 billion a year), the problem could be far worse than any of the services will admit, or possibly even realize, and there’s no way for artists or fans to determine how much revenue has been stolen. It’s like someone sucking the oil out from under your property: you don’t even know it’s happening.
Click fraud is not the only way to cheat the system. One band made an album of completely silent tracks and told their “fans” to play the blank album on repeat while they slept. If a subscriber did as instructed the band earned $195 in royalties from that single subscriber in just one month. But if each subscriber only pays $10 in subscription fees, then where did the other $185 come from?
It came from people like you.
The media suggests that Spotify was the one being “scammed” by this “clever” and “brilliant” stunt, but in reality Spotify suffered no financial loss at all. The $20,000 that the band received didn’t come out of Spotify’s pockets, it came out of the 70% in royalties earmarked for artists. In essence what happened is every artist on Spotify got paid a little less thanks to an album with no music on it.
To understand why, we need to talk about how “average” can be an illusion.
One of the most misleading words used in the streaming music industry is the word “average”. You’ll often see streaming services bragging about how their “average” user is streaming x number of hours per day, particularly when they are pitching advertisers. But don’t be fooled by the word “average” here — it’s an illusion. Average does not mean typical.
Think of it this way: imagine you are in a room with a random group of people. What is the average income of everyone in the room? It’s likely that roughly half will be above average, and the other half will be below average.
Now what happens when Bill Gates walks into the room?
Everyone in the room is below average now, thanks to Bill.
The same effect is happening in streaming music: a small number of super-heavy-usage subscribers have raised the “average” usage to the point that most subscribers are now below average.
We can illustrate this with a graph:
To understand how heavy-users wind up in control of your money, it helps to look at how royalties flow at the individual level:
Every user pays $10 a month, which generates $7 in royalties. If the per-stream rate of $0.007 is determined by dividing overall revenue by overall plays, then simple math tells us the “average” subscriber is streaming 1,000 times (1,000 * $0.007 = $7.00).
So if you stream 200 tracks in a month you will send $1.40 to the artists you listened to (200 * $0.007 = $1.40), and the remaining $5.60 of your $7 is now up for grabs. So who’s grabbing it?
Well, let’s imagine a heavy-user who streams 1,800 tracks in a month. As a result of all this streaming they send $12.60 in royalties to the artists they listen to (1,800 * $0.007 = $12.60). Since they only contributed $7 towards royalties, they are $5.60 short. Guess where that money comes from?
You.
It’s worth noting that many (if not most) of these heavy-usage “subscribers” are probably not individuals at all. They are actually offices, restaurants, gyms, hair salons, etc. Businesses like these can stream up to 24 hours a day — far more you as an individual could ever hope to do. And they probably don’t share your taste in music either. But they pay the same $10 you do, so why do they get to decide where your money goes?
It’s like you bought a CD and the store told you that you had to listen to it 1,000 times, or they will give your money to Nickelback.
That’s fucked up.
There is a better way to approach streaming royalties, one which addresses all of these problems, and it’s called Subscriber Share.
The premise behind Subscriber Share is simple: the only artists that should receive your money are the artists you listen to. Subscriber Share simply divides up your $7 based on how much time you spend listening to each artist. So if you listen to an artist exclusively, then that artist will get the entire $7, but if you listen less they get proportionately less.
As an example, if you listen to Alt-J 25% of the time, then Alt-J would get $1.75 ($7.00 * 25% = $1.75):
Let’s compare this with the Big Pool: if you typically stream 200 streams per month (that’s roughly 13 hours of streaming), then playing Alt-J 25% of the time would equal 50 streams. Since each stream gets a flat $0.007 per stream, the band will recieve just 35 cents. (50 * $0.007 = $0.35)
Click here to see how this looks in real life, with a real subscriber.
A nice feature of Subscriber Share is that it is very difficult to turn a profit with click fraud: instead of turning $10 into $600, a fraudster would be turning $10 into $7, and would waste a lot of bandwidth while doing so.
If the fraudster used stolen premium accounts (reducing their cost from $10 to $1 per account), they could still make as much as $6 per account, but that is nowhere near as attractive as making $600 is it? And the difficulty level to do this at scale goes way up. If the industry switched to Subscriber Share most click frauders would move to greener pastures.
Subscriber Share can also be a huge benefit to small bands just starting out. If a band has a respectable fan base of 5,000 fans then they need $12.06 from every one of these fans in order to earn the federal minimum wage for four people, $60,320. In years past they would sell their fans a CD. But now under the Big Pool they need an ungodly number of streams to make minimum wage: 8.6 million streams.
This means every single fan has to stream the band’s music 1,716 times. Assuming a four minute song that’s over 114 hours of listening, and if their fanbase averages 200 streams per month then that means their fans would need to listen to the band 71% of the time for an entire year!
Subscriber Share only requires the fans to listen to the band 14.36% of the time, so if the typical fan averages 200 streams a month, then just 29 streams a month is sufficient, and the fan will only spend 22 hours in total listening to the band’s music. This is far more plausible for a new artist.
But intriguingly, Subscriber Share also enables fans to financially support an artist using even less effort: If a band can convince their 5,000 fans to listen to them exclusively for two months, the band will earn $70k, and the fans will only have to click once each month in order to do this.
Subscriber Share enables listeners to directly support the artists they care about without having to expend extraordinary amounts of energy to do so.
The result of Subscriber Share is that each and every fan winds up being far more valuable to artists. It honors the intent of the listener, and incentivizes getting more fans, bringing the goals of everyone (services, labels, artists and fans) into alignment.
If you think about it, this is how most of the genres we love got started in the first place. Hip hop, jazz, blues, reggae, punk, grunge, etc, all came from a small group of musicians, and a small group of fans, supporting each other. Who was the biggest beneficiary of this in the end? The music industry.
It boils down to two big obstacles: fear, and inertia.
To be fair, the music industry has been on the wrong end of the economic stick for well over a decade now, and talking about changing royalty methods just as it seems like things are about to get better is understandably scary.
The other problem is inertia. Institutions hate change, it’s expensive and hard, and you have to rethink everything attached to that change. Inevitably various special interests will arise and fight for the status quo. It can be very tricky to overcome their objections.
So it is difficult for the music industry to change, even when they know it’s in their best interest. They are like a cat stuck in a tree. They got themselves up, and can’t figure out how to get down.
If the industry is immobilized by fear, and can’t be persuaded to move in the right direction with logic, then one possible way to get them to get them out of the tree is to make it even scarier if they don’t move. In other words: We need to scare the cat out of the tree.
And that’s where our little hack comes in…

A critical aspect of streaming music services is that the services can’t tell if the volume is turned down. If the music is playing the “clicks” still count, even if no one is listening. This can be used to our advantage.
Normally a typical subscriber can’t keep up with heavy users, in part because many of these heavy users aren’t even individuals to begin with: they’re actually offices, hair salons, gyms, yoga studios, and restaurants. But if typical subscribers streamed music 24/7, and just turned the volume down when they weren’t listening, then maybe they could catch up!
And if these silent protestors streamed strictly independent artists, major labels would have to worry about the value of their streams decreasing! That could be enough to persuade them to reconsider the use of the Big Pool method, and if the major labels jump out of the Big Pool tree, the rest of the music industry will follow.
Even a small number of people engaging in this silent protest will have a measurable impact: just doing it for one day will double most people’s monthly consumption, and doing it for one week will result in more streams than a typical subscriber consumes in a year! But obviously the more the merrier. So let’s throw the idea out there and see what happens:
Note: It’s recommended that you turn the volume low, but not all the way to zero, and you should change your selected indie artist on a daily basis (or even better use playlists with multiple artists), so that you aren’t mistaken as a bot by the services.
If this works the music industry will be forced make royalties fair(er) for all musicians and fans. If it fails a couple of indie bands will get a bigger check than usual. What have we got to lose by trying?
A constantly updated FAQ can be found here
It’s that little box at the bottom on the right with an arrow coming out of the top. It looks like this:
Can’t get the word out unless you help get the word out!

Use in whatever way you like (Use as your social media profile pic in September, or sell t-shirts, bumper stickers, sponges, laser pointers, etc. if you want, it’s totally up to you!):
CEO & founder: @Bandago (van rental with fun stuff), father of two boys, ping pong enthusiast. Previously: guitarist & songwriter for @creeperlagoon
An ear for the new, a heart for the classics.

About me: I built Caskers. Now I’m building Native.
The Hair of the Dog is a sports bar located in the Lower East Side of Manhattan. Like most sports bars in New York, it has an ungodly number of televisions, a beer pong table and 3.5 stars on Yelp. More importantly though, Hair of the Dog has a single dollar price rating (“$”), which is really important when your goal is to be drunk by 3PM.
In October 2013, my cofounder and I were in negotiations to sell Caskers, an ecommerce site we founded just 1.5 years earlier that sold spirits (think booze, not ghosts) online. The negotiations had already dragged on for a few months, and we were just days away from our scheduled closing date. If you’ve ever been in the same situation before, you know that your mind starts wandering and thinking about all the possibilities that could still derail the sale of your company. It also starts thinking about ways you could spend millions of dollars, but you try not to put the cart before the horse.
The week before my company was sold, there was little I could do except sit around and wait. My team (there were three of us at the time — my cofounder, our first employee and me) would come into the office around 9AM and finish up whatever pressing tasks we had for the day by noon. Then, we’d head down to Hair of the Dog and try to kill time by drinking until happy hour ended at 8PM. The week we spent at Hair remains a hazy blur for me, but I’ve had more than a year of sobriety to reflect on the business that I started, grew and sold. These are the five most important lessons I learned from my time at Caskers.
Lesson #1: Be Frugal
While most startups these days seem to spend money lavishly, we built Caskers on a shoestring budget. We had come up with a business model that didn’t require inventory (much less office space). The backbone of our website was an ecommerce plugin for WordPress that was free. We customized a theme that we had purchased for $35 to the extent that we could, and hired a developer in India to help us build out what we couldn’t. Our largest initial expense was actually our logo, which we got after running three design contests and cost $800. In total, it only cost us $1,200 to build our entire website before launching.
After we launched, we focused on growing the company as frugally as possible.
Being incredibly frugal was the most important lesson I learned at Caskers. Since we never spent any money, we never had to worry about running out of cash. In addition, being frugal allowed us to offer incredible value to our customers: every dollar that we saved in terms of our own expenses was another dollar we could pass along to our customers in terms of lower prices.
Lesson #2. Be Relentless
When we launched Caskers, we had no marketing or advertising budget. As a result, I knew that we’d only be able to build brand awareness and acquire customers by (i) making a product that people loved and shared with their friends and (ii) getting editors at news publications to write about us.
I was relentless in hacking growth. Here are a few days I did it:

Ultimately, we were able to generate millions of dollars in revenue without spending a dime on customer acquisition.
Lesson #3: Be Experimental
We were focused on growing our community as fast as possible and experimented rapidly with new ideas. If something was working, we’d devote more of our time to it. If it wasn’t, we scrapped it and tried something new.
Here are a few examples of things we experimented with:
Experimenting with new ideas to market our company and sell spirits consumed a large amount of my time. Without experimenting though, Caskers would not have been a fun place to work. More importantly though, Caskers would not have grown as quickly as it did.
Lesson #4: Be Careful
Ultimately, a startup is the sum of all the things you do and all the things you don’t do. There were many things we didn’t do, some for better or worse.
Being a startup founder requires making live-or-die decisions with limited information and finite resources and under intense pressure. Making decisions quickly is important, but rushing into decisions is a mistake.
Lesson #5 Be Resolved
One of the greatest challenges I faced as a founder was to ignore the noise of other startups. While other startups were raising rounds seemingly effortlessly, it was difficult to accept, much less be proud of the fact that my company hadn’t raised a dime and didn’t employ anyone (other than my cofounder and me) for a long period of time. Looking back on it, it’s easy to wear our lean operation as a badge of honor but at the time, it felt like we were failing.
Each startup is unique and the best way to build a successful company is to capitalize on your strengths and overcome your weaknesses. I learned that I couldn’t be pressured by the success of other startups — I learned to be resolved so that I could build the company I wanted to build.
In terms of what I’ve learned, in terms of the experiences I’ve had, and in terms of the friendships I’ve formed, starting, growing and selling Caskers has been the greatest experience of my life. So Far.
About Me: I was the cofounder and CEO of @Caskers. Now I’m the founder and CEO of Native. Follow me on twitter.
I built @Caskers. Now I’m building @nativecosmetics.
Sharing our ideas and experiences
When Material Design was announced, I was impressed with Google’s efforts to raise their game in the design field. It’s something that Apple had always been ahead. Not anymore. I remember complaining a lot about Android design’s inconsistencies, lack of documentations, unattractive dark theme and overuse of the ambiguous Hamburger menu. Material Design solved a lot of that. It now offers a consistent design language that is lighter, more colorful, backed by solid guidelines that are well-considered.
But while the colors are pretty and the use of cards give a great sense of depth and tactility, I often asked myself, is this really better than Apple’s iOS Design as a lot of designers say it is? I’d like to give some of my thoughts on why I think it’s different, not necessarily better.
Let’s start with the 3 core principles in iOS: Clarity, Deference and Depth.
Clarity is about text legibility, obvious icons and good contrast. Clarity can also be platform-specific. What’s clear to iOS or Android users highly depend on what they’re familiar with. An icon may be instantly recognizable to iOS users but not to Android users, and vice versa.
Depth is another principle that both platforms share. But they approach the concept differently. iOS promotes blur and gradients while Android gives priority to drop shadows and the concept of paper.
Despite what most say, both platforms replicate real life in major ways. They’re skeuomorphic using blur, drop shadows and animations that use physics and realism of space. Skeuomorphic design was helpful to introduce new concepts using familiar metaphors, but the overly detailed textures and 3D effects definitely ran its course. As users, we outgrew it because technology is no longer so foreign to us. We’re at a phase where a leathered calendar or vinyl disc make less sense than a digital concept.
In both of these design languages, there are weaknesses.
For example, it looks off to have multiple layers of blur on top of each other. Also, the vibrancy added can be too much.
The card concept looks completely different on a circular screen. The card takes the full width. The alignment of the text feels off because there is a lot of unnecessary negative spacing. Lists are also hard to use on a circular screen since the corners hide a major part of the content.
These Android Wear faces look awesome though. This truly feels like the UI was made for a circular screen.




Deference is where it differs a lot. iOS gives total priority to the content while Android uses the concept of cards to make the content seem more tactile, thus losing important real estate in the left and right portions of the screen. The overwhelming colors also take priority over the content.
The FAB (floating action button) hides the content and gets in the way of the interactions.
Inversely in iOS, the focus is more on the content. The color of the UI is more neutral and contextual (they change based on the content). Vibrant colors are used minimally, mostly for actionable items.

There has been a long debate on whether we should use the Hamburger menu. That debate is far from over. Even Apple sparsely use it in their designs.
But it’s safe to say that we generally see them more in Android since Material Design encourages them.
iOS favors the Tab bar for navigation. Interestingly, LukeW pointed out that obvious always wins. Facebook switched to the Tab bar for iOS and they saw an important increase in user engagement.

But there are situations where the Hamburger menu can be a good idea, like when your most important content is your front page. Options inside it need to be secondary, like settings and logout.
Material Design uses colors prominently. Yes, they’re pretty. So was the Flat UI color palette. We can all agree that pastel colors look very nice in most situations, unlike the flashy ones that come by default in CSS or Xcode.
But Material Design uses those colors in their header, sometimes even to replace content. When you have a lot of competing colors, it de-prioritizes other elements.
Colors do have meanings, but those meanings can be quite limited (E.G. red means alert, yellow means warning, etc). Colors do express a brand, but branding shouldn’t be front and center in the UI of your app. In fact, the App Icon is the place where branding is most appropriate. So before you absolutely want to use a color alone in your header, you might want to consider something more expressive. Something that explains exactly what your app is about.
Again, that may make sense in Android, but not in iOS.

I have to admit that I used to think that having one design language that is consistent across all platforms is the best way to go. But unfortunately that lead to designing an Android app using the iOS design language. It made sense from my point of view, but ultimately it was bad for the users. Android users are simply not familiar with iOS.
Material Design’s goal to unify all platforms is a valiant effort, better than anything I’ve seen in this respect. But is it really the best way to go?
Is the Card concept really working on Android wear, which sometimes has a circular screen? It doesn’t seem like the language considered the devices first. Instead, it feels like an afterthought.
If you look at the Apple Watch, the design was completely rethought for the Watch. This means that there are new UI paradigms that had to be considered specifically for the Force Touch, the Digital Crown, wrist detection and the black bezel.
Everything from how the Material should be manipulated and elevated to how the colors should be combined is explained in their guide.
The good side of having strict style guides is that it’s hard to go wrong. It’s like Bootstrap. It provides a consistent and convenient system. The bad side is that it limits creativity and will make most apps homogeneous.

Don’t get me wrong, there are a lot of things that Material Design does right. It just seems like every designer sings praises without truly considering the weaknesses.
For one, their new Design spec is world-class, giving guidance on a variety of design topics that will benefit you beyond the scope of Material Design.
The concept of cards is one that generally works well across the board. It’s flexible and modular. It can definitely work with Web — designers have been using them way before Mobile came along. But I believe that the smaller the screen is, the less it makes sense.
As I mentioned before, pastel colors were hardly a new thing. But the Flat UI trend and Material Design really popularized it. We’re going back to the basics in order to achieve harmonious colors and beautiful typography. That’s a great thing. The more we know about the foundation of design, the better we can shape the pillars that come on top of it.
The animations in Material Design are elegant and delightful, albeit not as innovative as people make them out to be. Before iOS 7 came, transitional interfaces were still a fairly new concept. I’m glad that both guides are promoting smoother, more progressive animations to guide our users rather than scream at them for attention.
There will never be a perfect design language or template. The purpose of this piece is not to discourage one or the other, but to offer perspective their strengths and weaknesses. Design is about picking the best for the intent. So go ahead, experiment and see what works for your product. Just don’t forget to consider the people and devices that you’re designing for.
I wrote a few things about iOS, Android and code. You can find me on Twitter at @MengTo. Thanks for reading!
I design, code and write. @mengto
The most important news related to Android, Tech and everything else…

10) Always get the full story before making a decision.
9) It's incredibly easy to 'flip the switch' and start writing people off after a few bad experiences. Resist at all costs. You were bumbling once too. You made poor decisions. You learn and grow, and so does everybody else.
8) Sweep up the crumbs. Wipe the tables. Turn off the lights. Plug the holes that need plugging—even if it's menial, even if nobody will know you did it. Do it in service of the product, the company, and this wondrous, magical thing you are all building together.
7) Recognize you can't do everything. Close your eyes, fall backwards, and learn to trust.
6) Clearly, there is a more efficient way to do the things you do. How? Ponder that on your daily drive home.
5) Figure out which people rely on you and how you can help them be self-sufficient. You may feel important having a monopoly on salmon provisions, but if the whole village learns how to fish, it'll free you up to do something else. Like figuring out how to grow wheat. Or how to domesticate those cute wolf-pups.
4) Don't say anything if it's not actually contributing to the discussion. Your voice is not so melodious that it absolutely must be heard.
3) Making the best decision is not as important as putting in the right processes to ensure that the best decisions get made.
2) Dole out thanks and encouragement like you dole out opinions.
1) Above all, this: never, ever get in the way. It's better to twiddle your thumbs and squint up at the clouds than to obstruct progress for the sake of that stupid, childish thing called ego.
This is a personal list, and perhaps gently biased by what I do (manage designers) and where I work (Facebook) and how the imprint of many talented others have affected me. I don't claim to do all these things well nor every day. But this is the little voice that greets me in the morning, the whisper at the end of each day, the shadowy outline of some dazzling ideal that I catch a glimpse of every once in a blue moon. This is the aspiration. This is the manifesto.
Product design director @ Facebook. Self-professed tyro and lover of food, games, words. Follow me as @joulee or on  www.juliezhuo.com
A collection of essays by Julie Zhuo on design, building products, and observing life.

“If it turns out that this is incurable, would you marry me?” is not your traditional marriage proposal, but then again, Andy and I haven’t lived traditional lives.

Andy and I first met after literally running into each other at a White House reception honoring the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community in June of 2012. I was fortunate enough to have been invited after coming out publicly as a transgender woman while serving as student body president at American University just a month before. Andrew, 26 at the time, had come out as a transgender man several years prior and was now a leading LGBT health policy advocate in Washington, DC.
I hadn’t given our clumsy “meeting” at the White House much thought until I received a charming and suave Facebook message from that handsome guy two months later. His friends now tell me that he spent hours writing and re-writing the short message, in which he asked me out for coffee or drinks. After several online conversations and a few more chance encounters while I interned at the White House, we finally managed to find some time to go out for dinner.
We quickly found that we had far more in common than our transgender history, no doubt an important component of our identities, but still only one part. We both had a passion for law and politics, a love of “trash television” as he would call it, a desire to travel, and incessant need to be right. We both got involved in politics after an intense interest in film. We both loved Star Wars, although his love dwarfed anything I could muster. And we both had an obnoxious affinity for baby-talk and nicknames, he was the “big bean,” to my “little bean.” I still maintain that I certainly had the better deal: he was generous, loving, smart, funny, and enjoyed just the perfect mix of hard work and play. Many of the traits I’d find common in people from his beloved home state of Wisconsin.
In no time we were attached at the hip. Just a few weeks into our relationship he accompanied my family and me on a trip to Barbados. I quickly became part of his family and he quickly became part of mine. In no time, he was my partner and my best friend. To top it off, we even ended up becoming colleagues, when I joined him to work at the Center for American Progress. We began to talk about our future together, believing that it stretched far beyond anything we could imagine.
Our relationship took on a whole new dimension when Andrew was diagnosed with oral cancer in his tongue in September of 2013. I thought and hoped that the succeeding few months would be the toughest that we would have to endure for some time. In October, Andy underwent a twelve-hour surgery to remove part of his tongue and reconstruct it with a graft from his arm. Just as he relearned how to talk and eat, he had to undergo an intense regimen of radiation and chemotherapy that left him in so much pain that he could barely breath without a stabbing sensation in his mouth.
And then in April, he was proclaimed “cancer free!” As frightening and as stressful as that experience was, it gave us a bond that few couples our age develop so quickly. When we received the positive results in April, we knew we were not totally out of the woods yet, but we began to start to plan for our lives ahead.
But then the world that he had rebuilt after his first diagnosis came crashing back down in July of 2014 when he developed a mild, but persistent cough and chest pain. After several tests and a short hospital stay, the news came back like a punch in the gut: Andy’s cancer had returned and had spread to the lungs.
It was in the 24 hours after this news that Andy asked me, “If it turns out that this is incurable, would you marry me?” Of course the answer was yes. Andy had always wanted to get married, but prior to this new diagnosis, there was never any rush. He was only 28 and I was just out of college.
When we got the news that the illness was “life shortening,” as doctors say, his soul was understandably crushed. At the time, we were told that with treatment, he would probably have about a year left.
The next two weeks were a blur of silence, disbelief, and crying. Lots and lots of crying. Crying about the fear of death. Crying because he wouldn’t be able to see his family and friends grow up. Crying because, as he said, “he wouldn’t be around to say ‘I love you, bean,” or ‘I’m proud of you, bean.’”
And as the crying gave way to determination — determination to both live as long as possible and as much as possible — we decided to move forward with a wedding.
Andy was scheduled to start chemotherapy in the next few weeks in order to perpetuate his life. Because we thought we were operating with a year left, we tentatively set our wedding for mid-October. Both of us had always wanted a fall wedding anyway; the colors, the temperatures, and, for a DC couple, the lack of humidity were all appealing.

But on Thursday, August 14th, the third full day of Andrew’s second stay at our local hospital and two weeks before he was supposed to start treatment, one doctor threw a wrench into our plans and cold water on Andy’s hopes.
“I’m saying you might not make it to treatment,” the doctor said.
These were the first words I heard as I walked into Andy’s hospital room after taking a shower back at our apartment. As I came around the corner, I saw the stunned look on Andy’s face.
“So you think I may only have two weeks?” Andy asked, his face as white as the Wisconsin snow he may never see again.
“Yes,” the doctor continued and then paused. There was silence. I wasn’t quite sure where he was going next. He seemed to be deep in concentration, which would make sense given the gravity of the news he had just delivered.
“Hold on, there is a fly. Let me kill it.” He lifted his hands up, getting ready to smack the fly to death. The silence continued, only broken by a loud clap.
The body of the fly fell to the floor. The doctor paused again, said “hold on, let me pick it up,” as he slowly bent over, lifted the fly’s body, and threw it in the trash.
I wanted to scream at the doctor’s coldness, but I was stunned into silence by both the news and the indifference with which it was delivered.
After 45 seconds, which naturally felt like an hour, Andy, who couldn’t bare awkwardness, finally broke the silence and said to the doctor, “nice job.”
Eventually, the doctor continued. He instructed us that one of Andy’s lungs was failing at a rapid rate. “You need to decide whether you will want to go on a respirator. Just know, though, given your condition, if you go on a respirator, you will likely never be able to be taken off. And to put you on a respirator, you will have to be sedated, and, given your condition, you will likely never wake up.”
Moments later, another doctor came in and apologized profusely. It seems she had over-hydrated Andy after thinking his heart was racing from a lack of fluids. The doctor who had just delivered Andy’s “two-weeks notice,” seemed surprised and slightly relieved that there was a potentially reversible reason for the episode. The cardiologist prescribed some medications and reduced his fluid intake. Sure enough, Andy rebounded and by that afternoon was better than he had been since being admitted to the hospital in the first place.
As the two doctors left his room, we were confused. Did Andy have two weeks left or was his rapid decline of this morning merely a temporary problem that was easily fixed? Unsure, Andy turned to me and said, “Two weeks? I’m not ready for this ‘A Walk To Remember’ shit.” He had been fighting to live, but now it seemed he was merely fighting for a year.
Over the next few hours, neither doctor returned to our room with any more information. We asked any medical professional who entered our room for an update, from the nurses, to the palliative care team, to the young hospitalist. No one could provide much clarity as to what we were looking at in that moment. The general consensus was that Andy didn’t look like someone with two weeks left. In fact, by that evening, he was stable enough that the decision was made to discharge Andy in the next few days.
The next day, after Andy’s mother had suggested moving up the wedding, I broached the subject with him. He seemed to receive the idea well, although with concern that moving the date meant something about his prognosis. I explained that we weren’t moving the date because his prognosis had changed, but rather that the chemotherapy would take more out of him than we anticipated. Determined to reach the wedding, he said, “Let’s do it.”

The first full day back at the apartment, our friend and colleague Bishop Gene Robinson, the first openly gay bishop in any major Christian denomination, came by our apartment to discuss the possibility of a wedding. After talking with Bishop Gene for about an hour, we decided to move forward with a wedding that weekend, then just five days away.
Bishop Gene, as well as several close friends, offered to do all the planning, logistics, and organizing for the wedding. All we had to do was to get the marriage certificate, for me to buy my dress, and to make the occasional decision. Given Andy’s limitations, we decided that we would host the wedding on the roof of our apartment building, a beautiful space for about fifty that has magnificent 360 degree views of Washington, DC.
Over the next several days, as preparations for the wedding continued, Andy’s situation deteriorated. With each passing day, he could walk less and required a little more oxygen. He slept more and more. Daily tasks that once took five minutes for Andy, now took thirty minutes or an hour with the help of multiple people. Eventually, eating became a labor for him, taking him four hours to down fifteen spoonfuls of an ice-cream/medicine mix.
The only respite from the constant struggle to keep him nourished and hydrated came when I would talk with him about the wedding. You could tell he was trying his hardest to stay awake and alert for those conversations.
A few days earlier, Bishop Gene had sent us a draft of the wedding ceremony based on the Episcopal Church’s service. With Andy’s permission, I went through and edited it for us. I removed any mention of death in the ceremony and replaced it with “forever and ever.” Given his condition, I also reduced the amount of lines we had to speak to three simple sentences:
“I do.”
“That is my solemn vow.”
And, “Please accept this ring as a symbol of my abiding love.”
I knew he would not be able to remember these lines, so I wrote them out, as well as the last sentences before them. After working on the service for about an hour, I came out of our bedroom and asked him if we could go over it.
By this time, Andy was sleeping most of the day. His activities were looking less like someone with ten or even two months left, and more like someone who had a week or two. I tried reading the entire service to him, but he fell asleep pretty quickly. When he awoke, I decided to only read to him his parts and the sentences before his lines, including the line, “Will you honor and love her forever and ever?”
After I asked him if he was okay with that and told him that I had made a cheat sheet so he didn’t have to memorize anything, he started to drift off to sleep again. As his head began to fall back and his dreams came again, I heard him mumbling. I wasn’t sure if he needed something, so I walked over to his chair and leaned in.
He kept mumbling the same thing over and over again. I leaned in further to hear him more clearly, “forever and ever, forever and ever, forever and ever…”

The morning of our wedding — August 24, 2014 — came without incident. No shortness of breath. His eating had marginally improved. The weather, which had initially been forecast to be rainy, turned out to be the nicest day of the month. Mid-80s, sunny, just the right amount of breeze. Our families had come in from out of town. Old friends and new friends were ready and excited. It was turning out to be a beautiful, albeit bittersweet day.
I was getting ready in our neighbor’s apartment across the hall when about an hour before the ceremony one of Andy’s best friends knocked on the door. He was out of breath and clearly shaken.
“Andy just had an episode. He started to collapse and go unconscious when he was moving from his recliner to his wheelchair. He is awake and his vitals are okay right now, but we called the police and the EMT’s are on their way.” Luckily, my brother, a radiation oncologist, had offered to be with Andy while he got dressed for the wedding and was there to help.
With my hair up and my wedding dress still hanging on the wall, I ran over to our apartment. I found Andy in the recliner with my brother and our friends around him. I walked up and he apologized, “I’m sorry, are you mad at me?”
“Of course not, beanie,” my nickname for him, “Of course I’m not mad at you.”
As we heard the sirens approaching our building from the outside, my brother asked Andy several questions to ensure he hadn’t had a stroke.
“What is your name?”
“Andrew Cray.”
“Where are we?”
“My apartment in Washington, DC.”
“What is today?”
He got the date wrong by a few days, but also answered, “my wedding day.”
The EMT’s entered the apartment and made their way through the medical equipment and wedding supplies. With the caterer preparing the small amount of food for our wedding in the next room, the EMTs performed an EKG and consulted with my brother. Andy was adamant that he did not want to go into the hospital, knowing what that would mean for our wedding and for his chances at chemotherapy. With his vitals normal, the EMT’s acquiesced.
As they left, I asked Andy if he wanted to move the wedding into the apartment or to cancel it all together. He shook his head and said, “No, this is happening.”
As I walked back across the hall, my brother informed me that he wasn’t sure Andy could make it up to the roof in his wheelchair, but that we would see how he did over the next half an hour.
But my Andy rallied. With the help of three people, Andy was able to get into his dress clothes and, with oxygen in tow, he made it up to the roof.
I exited the elevator just as Andy was being wheeled onto the rooftop patio. As the elevator door slid open, I could see the back of Andy’s wheelchair moving down the narrow path to the opening on our roof where our wedding was to be held. As he approached the fifty family members, both blood and chosen, they started to applaud for him, unaware that just an hour earlier, EMT’s were in our apartment ready to take him to the hospital.
Clearly feeling as though he had conquered the world, Andy lifted his arm in triumph and gave the group a big thumbs up, his trademark. After they quickly switched Andy from the portable to stationary oxygen supply, I made my way out to the roof on my father’s arm.
I had no idea what my wedding was going to look like. Our friends had put it all together for us in five days with hardly anything more than a color preference from us. And it was beautiful. The bouquets included my favorite flowers — purple orchids and blue hydrangeas — a fact that was unknown by the friend who ordered them. Andy was stationed under a white tent surrounded by flowers and sitting in front of our dream officiate, Bishop Gene Robinson.
As I approached Andy, I could see him starting to choke up. We had always talked about getting married and he had asked me several times if I thought we would some day.
My mother says that it was clear Andy loved me from the first time we met and clearly always wanted to spend the rest of his life with me. I don’t know about that, but what I do know is that we were committed to each other for life long before we got married. Our ceremony on that day merely formalized, before family and by the state, what was already a reality between us. We had been through so much together. We were already bound together by both the superficial, like our love of reality television, and the deep, like our mutual commitment to equality and social justice. We had each walked beside the other during some of the most trying times in our lives.
Fortunately, we got through the ceremony without any problems. We exchanged our rings and committed ourselves to one another. He had forgotten the cheat sheet downstairs, so he improvised his lines. Shortening them so they wouldn’t make him short of breath or cause him to cough.
After taking a few pictures and receiving a few hugs, Andy was exhausted and decided to go back to our apartment with a few of his friends. I remained on the roof with our remaining guests for another hour and then went back downstairs to be with my new husband.
The first thirty-six hours of our marriage were a lot like the previous thirty-six. There was nagging over his food intake, a lot of sleeping, and a boatload of comforting reality television.
What was different was that Andy had three more episodes like the one he had just an hour before the wedding. Each time, he was about to move from his recliner to his wheelchair or from his wheelchair to the recliner. Andy was a nervous person and would clearly get anxious before these moves. As he got anxious, he was unable to adjust his breathing, would get light-headed, and begin to pass out. As we would temporarily up his oxygen and call his name, he would return to us. Within seconds, he would shake himself out of it and look at me. In typical Andy fashion, he would say, “I’m so sorry, love, are you mad at me?”
“No beanie, I’m not mad at you at all. I love you so much,” I would reply each time.

The next morning, by the grace of God, Andy was able to make it down to the car for the forty-minute drive to Johns Hopkins Hospital with me and his ex-girlfriend, Heather, to begin treatment that was meant to perpetuate his life.
We arrived at Hopkins to first meet with his oncologist prior to starting chemotherapy. As the doctor walked into the exam room, we knew things had changed. He hadn’t yet known about Andy’s episodes, but the blood work that was done the previous week showed some concerning numbers. The doctor warned us that we may not be able to proceed with chemotherapy today, but that he would send Andy up to the infusion room for some liquid, since he was, despite my attempts to prevent it, clearly dehydrated. After a few hours, he would re-evaluate Andy and determine what, if any treatment, he could give him. He also ordered more blood work and told us that he would come meet with us in the infusion center after the tests came back.
As we waited in the center for more information, it was clear that Andy’s situation was getting worse. In just a matter of a few hours, his oxygen hunger had increased dramatically. I heard rumblings from the nurses outside our station that one of the patients would need to be admitted.
I stepped outside and approached his infusion nurse and asked her what was happening. She said that they were going to have to admit Andy today. Both of us had been told that being admitted would make it highly unlikely that he was healthy enough for any life-perpetuating medical care.
I offered to tell him the news that I knew would shatter him. As I walked back, I opened the curtain with the nurse following behind. I tried as gently as possible to tell him that they were going to admit him. Ever the optimist, he knew what that meant, but he didn’t give up hope. He talked about how they could try to stabilize him again so that he could be ready for chemotherapy. Just as he gave me a wink of assurance, the medical oncologist returned and informed us that some of the tests had come back and the concerning numbers had jumped higher.
A few minutes later, I met with the oncologist outside of Andy’s station. He said that intubation, or the process of putting Andy on a respirator, was possibly imminent. He asked if he had any wishes on that front. He didn’t have to say what that meant as the fly-killing doctor from two weeks ago had already painted the grim picture: if intubated, Andy would never be able to be weaned off, nor would he likely ever wake up. I asked the oncologist how long we had to have the conversation. After all, he had just been given the news that he was being admitted. Couldn’t I give him some time? “Unfortunately, no.”
After Andy had been “upgraded rooms,” as I had jokingly put it to him during the admittance process, I said that for “precautionary reasons,” we needed to talk about the question of intubation. The nurse brought us a blank advance directive and we sat down for the first extended conversation since our wedding: whether or not he would want his life continued in a persistent vegetative state.
He stared at the paper for a good ten minutes. He asked if we had to talk about it now, but Heather and I informed him that the doctor said we needed to, again “as a precaution.” He sat with his pen for another few minutes and finally marked the box that said, “If my doctors certify that I am in a persistent vegetative state… and there is no reasonable expectation that I will ever regain consciousness…Keep me comfortable and allow natural death to occur.”
I called our family and friends to ask them to travel to Baltimore to be with us. His mother, step-father, father, and my mother came immediately. For the next two days, a rotating group of ten to twenty people stuck by our side at the hospital. The same group, which had organized our celebration of love just three days before, stood by in a circle of love in his hospital room as he slept more and more.
A day after he was admitted, he was unconscious nearly all the time. Every once in a while, he would regain consciousness, smile at us, squeeze our hands, and ask that his oxygen be turned up. He would rotate his fingers with a look of urgency in his eyes signaling his desire for more oxygen. Each time, we would have to inform him that the oxygen was as high as it could go.
Wednesday the 27th was the last day Andrew was awake. Just before he went back to sleep for the final time, I told him, “I love you.” He raised his eyebrows and mustered the energy to say four words back. These words would be the only words he would speak that day and the last words he would physically speak ever. “I love you, too.”
We were told the next morning it was probably only a matter of time. And echoing a conversation I had the night before with one of our best friends, the nurse said that sometimes you have to lean in and tell the person that it is “okay to go” because they are afraid of disappointing people. The group of five people in his room looked at each other and all thought, “that is so Andy.” So one by one we all leaned in and told Andy that it was “okay to go.”
I was both the first and last person to convey this message to him. I leaned in both times and said, “I love you, beanie, I’m going to miss you every day, but it’s okay for you to go. No one is going to be mad at you.” I then slipped a handwritten note into his clenched fist, which by then had become fairly cold. “You are loved,” it read.
Three hours later, his vitals began to drop. I called for everyone in the lounge to come in. We all stood there as his oxygenation level — the key stat for someone battling cancer in the lungs — dropped from a reasonably health 95 to 85. Then to 75. Then to 65. His numbers were reaching fatal levels.
Crying, we gathered around Andy in that circle of love which remained constant throughout his final stay in the hospital. A rainbow of family — gay and straight, trans and cisgender — held tightly onto him. His breathing diminished. His heart rate slowed. And at 3:30 PM on Thursday the 28th, with the gifts from our wedding five days earlier still unwrapped back in our apartment, Andy passed away.
That night, the group, which gathered to plan our wedding, gathered to plan his funeral. Bishop Gene, who had officiated at our wedding, would preside. Those who had stood at his bedside with me would eulogize him. The family of relatives and friends would join together again to mourn his passing.

His service was held at St. Thomas’ Episcopal Church in Washington, DC on Saturday. Bishop Gene wore the same frocks that he wore at the wedding the weekend before; he explained that Sunday’s wedding was a celebration of life and love, and so too was today.
Tributes from all around the country began to flow in. From the Mayor of DC, officials at the White House, state and national equality organizations, and from friends, relatives, acquaintances, and total strangers around the world who had been touched by Andy’s story and his work.
Andy was one of the amazing few who could draw upon their own life to help others without actually talking about himself. He worked tirelessly to bring joy, meaning, health, and fulfillment to others lives. He had stood up to the intolerance and prejudice in the world to live authentically, only to have cancer end his life a few years after he began to live true to himself.
There are many lessons I take from his passing, but the biggest is that though we may feel invincible, we never know how much time we have left. Life is too short for outdated dogmas to impede our own pursuit of happiness. Despite growing up in a progressive family and with open-minded friends, the expectation from the outside world that we must live, love, and identify based on one fact at birth, kept Andrew inside of himself for too long.
In his early twenties he finally had the courage to be happy and complete. Getting cancer was not a choice. There was nothing that he could have done to avoid his ending. But our society’s prejudice that kept him from being complete for most of his life is a choice. For Andrew, and for all the people who simply want to make the most of their lives, let us make the choice to stop the hate and to let love, light, and authenticity flourish.
And yet despite this tragic end, it’s clear that Andy lived with more purpose and realness in 28 years than most find in 60 or 80 years. He loved and was loved. He befriended and mentored without regard for status or interest in gain. He gave others courage through the bravery he demonstrated; not just throughout his struggle with cancer over the last year, but also through the authenticity with which he lived his own life every day. Through his work, he helped open up health care to hundreds of thousands of LGBT Americans and spearheaded the national effort to ensure that transgender people can access the care they desperately need, but are too often denied.
Few, if any, have ever taught me as much as Andy did. He taught me about life, perseverance, compassion, optimism, fidelity, and passion. He was one of the most impressive people I’ve ever met, yet one of the humblest (it’s amazing he could tolerate me). Even in his final weeks, he cried less about his own luck or plight, but about the things he would no longer be able to do for others. That was Andy.
So thank you for coming into my life, my bean. So many medical professionals said, given your state, you shouldn’t have made it to the wedding. But you did. I don’t know if you held on for me or for you. But, in the end, you gave me the best gift anyone could ever ask for. Thank you for sending me that first Facebook message in August of 2012 and thank you for marrying me one year ago. But most of all, thank you for being you.
‘Tis strange how men find time to hate, When life is all too short for love; But we, away from our own kind, A different life can live and prove. And early on a summer’s morn, As I go walking out with you, We’ll help the sun with our warm breath To clear away the dew, My love, To clear away the morning dew.

Political nerd, LGBT advocate, Delawarean, AU alum, board member at Equality Delaware, LGBT Progress Staff.  All opinions are my own and inherently right ;)
Here there is hope, humor, and help as you deepen your connection to others, yourself, and to your work.

I was looking for a more effective way to consume all the content I save during the day and fit it inside my busy schedule. I mostly save articles I see on Medium (+ occasionally articles from big tech websites), and my bookmark section is growing almost daily. The only thing is that I have no time to read them all. Even by end of the day… I hate myself for this, because I’m missing so many great stories.
I was thinking someone could read the articles to me (if I can’t handle it myself)… Maybe some app? Text-to-audio?
On the other hand, I still want to feel the emotion of the story and not listen to some robot reading. Every. Word. Separately. With. No. Accent.
Sooooooo what now?

I listen to a lot of podcasts, shows or talks in the background while I work or when I walk to the office, and I think it could be awesome to do the same thing with my saved Medium articles — listen to them as audio instead of reading them as text.
The whole functionality allowing this feature could be handled inside the existing mobile app. There is no need for a standalone app.
How?
Let’s take a look on the existing Medium iOS app and its article detail screen. Focus on the white bar in the bottom of the screen, which is used to introduce features available for each article. You can see “bookmark,” “like” and “share” icons. What about adding one more icon that allows you to play the article as audio?
It fits perfectly with the overall style of the app and fits the existing usage pattern of having similar features at the bottom of the screen.


If you want play the article as audio, you can just tap this little icon to open the audio player, and that’s it. Happy listening!
Nice, huh? Let's focus on the technical side now…


You may be wondering where all the audio content could be made, what kind of text-to-voice software could be used in the background, etc. I think there is no need for such things. Writers could record themselves reading their own work and attach it to the story as an audio file.
Of course, adding an audio version of you article should not be required. Once you finish writing your story in the current version of the app, you are asked to add a few tags to help readers find your story. I think there is the best opportunity to ask for one more thing — a recording of your story.
Note: Users should not be pushed to record anything, but if they are asked to do something extra, they may feel they are improving their readers’ experience by allowing them to consume articles in a new way.
To give you a better idea about how it could look, I made a quick mockup to compare the current version and my version:

I also tried to design a recording screen using the existing UI style and colors. Again, the whole flow fits the existing style of the app. It’s a bit similar to adding tags, which is already something you can do.
All you have to do is press the microphone button and start reading. I was also thinking about adding some kind of indicator for highlighting words to help you maintain rhythm/speed while recording your story. But I wasn’t sure about the correct implementation. It may be confusing for users if they loose track on this indicator, and it could mess up their recording.
Once you finish recording, you can save it and go back to the “publish” screen, which will be in a different (finished) state. You can see the tags you selected and attach the audio file you just recorded. Hit “publish,” and your story is out…
Of course, this is just a quick concept I came up with in a few hours. But imagine how many things could be added soon or later. Just to mention a few of them:
Got more ideas? Feel free to add comments :)

Is it just me, or do you guys have the same problem? Let me know in comments or write a short response to this article. It would also be interesting so know what the Medium staff thinks. I’ll keep you posted in case they contact me.
— — — — — — — — — —
Let's be friends!
Ales Nesetril, UI/UX designer with passion for minimalism & simplicity, currently working for STRV between Prague and San Francisco.
Twitter, Dribbble, Behance, Instagram, Email
STRV is a top-tier, one-stop mobile app development shop working with top-tier startups from Y Combinator and 500Startups, among others, across offices in San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York and Prague.
User Interface Designer with passion for minimalism & simplicity, currently at @STRVcom — #ui/ux, #skateboarding, #electronicmusic, #ps3
The Medium Community







For more detailed reads of the sketches above:
Product design director @ Facebook. Self-professed tyro and lover of food, games, words. Follow me as @joulee or on  www.juliezhuo.com
A collection of essays by Julie Zhuo on design, building products, and observing life.


In this quick write-up, we’ll cover how to take advantage of your existing knowledge of features in Sublime Text and apply them to another powerful tool in your arsenal — the Chrome DevTools.
Thanks to several modern tools including DevTools, JSBin and Codepen relying on the excellent CodeMirror editor, keyboard bindings like those in Sublime Text are more readily available elsewhere than they have been.
Let’s assume for the rest of this write-up that we’ll primarily be working inside the DevTools Sources panel — a feature which, when paired with Workspaces gives you a powerful in-browser editor.


Very similar to Sublime, DevTools has a Goto “Anything” dialog. This can take you to a specific file, a line number or a method definition. You can bring up the Goto “Anything” search using Ctrl/Cmd + P. This lets you search/filter through files just by starting to type in the files name. To search for a method — such as a JavaScript method or a CSS selector, use Ctrl/Cmd + Shift + P and start typing in the method name.

`Ctrl` + `G` will toggle a dialog allowing you to jump to a specific line in a file. If you wish to go to a line in the current file, bring up the dialog and type in a colon followed by the line number you are interested in. For example, :25 will take you to line 25. If you wish to go to a line in a different file, type in the file name, a colon and then the line number (e.g app.js:25).
Go to end of a line: `Alt` + `Right` or `Cmd` + `Right`Go to the start of a line: `Alt` + `Left` or `Cmd` + `Left`

Go to the start of a file: `Alt` + `Up` or `Cmd` + `Up`Go to the end of a file: `Alt` + `Down` or `Cmd` + `Down`
Go one word left: `Ctrl`+ `Left` or `Alt` + `Left`Go one word right: `Ctrl` + `Right` or `Alt` + `Right`
Go up a line: `Up`Go down a line: `Down`

A caret is that blinking line that indicates where you’re typing at the moment. Similar to Sublime Text, DevTools can have as many carets as you want.
Adding multiple Carets
You can start playing with carets by opening any supported file in Sources, then selecting each line by holding down `Cmd`/`Alt` and clicking wherever you would like to add a new caret.
For example, if you have multi-line JavaScript that needs to be prefixed, edited or wrapped in quotes, multiple carets can make this a breeze.
The following steps will quickly get every line selected:
1. Click on the first line2. While holding down `⌘` and `Option`3. Drag your mouse through the rest of the lines
You should now have a cursor somewhere on each line.
Use multiple carets from the front of a line
Use `Cmd` + `←` ( `Alt` + `←` for Windows/Linux) to bring all cursors to the front of the line, and then hold down `Option` while using the arrow keys to jump by word. When in front of the file name, simply type in your prefix and you’re done!
Wrap with Quotes or Brackets
Highlight the words with `Cmd` + `Shift` + `←` ( `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `←` for Windows/Linux) and type an opening quote or bracket. Dev tools will wrap each word in the selected quote or bracket.
Column selection
Carets can similarly be used for selecting custom columns of text. Hold down `Alt` and then click and drag over the region of text you would like to select. DevTools will highlight the area and you can now copy or edit it as needed.
Carets and matching words
Carets can also be used for highlighting specific words. Select a word in your editor (it can be a variable, method, or anything really). DevTools will highlight other instances of this word with a border around them.
Now use `Cmd` + `D` (or `Alt` + `D`) and DevTools will highlight and place multiple cursors on the matching words. This is particularly useful during batch rename operations. Hitting D a few more time while still holding ⌘ selects the next instance of the selection found. By hitting ⌘, then D three times, you can select three iterations of the text.

When working with non-complex pieces of code, you might find it tricky to find corresponding opening and closing brackets with your naked eye. `Ctrl` + `M` allows you to instantly move your cursor there. Using it twice will jump to its opening or closing counterpart.

We know the importance of indentation. It helps keep our code readable and easy to understand. To increase or decrease the current line’s indent, use the shortcuts below:
Indent text: `Tab`Unindent text: `Shift` + `Tab`

If you need to comment/uncomment a piece of code, the same shortcuts you would use for this in Sublime Text also apply:
Comment text: `Cmd`/`Ctrl` + `/`Uncomment text: `Cmd`/`Ctrl` + `/` on the same section of text.
This works across all languages and works pretty well with lines or whole selections.

When typing values in the DevTools Sources panel, you’re presented with autocompletions as you type. If however you dismiss these and would like to manually toggle autocompletion, you can do so with:
`Ctrl` + `Space`

You can cut, copy and paste text using the same shortcuts you’re used to in other editors:
Cut: `Cmd` + `X`Copy: `Cmd` + `C`Paste: `Cmd` + `V`Undo: `Cmd` + `Z`Soft undo: `Cmd` + `U`Redo: `Cmd` + `Y`

Note: ⇞ and ⇟ are page up and page down. On an Apple keyboard, you can page up/down by holding fn + ↑/↓
In the Sources pane, you can select a numeric value and easily increment or decrement the value using your keyboard. Highlight the value and then:
Increment CSS unit by 1: `Option` + `↑`Decrement CSS unit by 1: `Option` + `↓`Increment CSS unit by 10: `Option` + `⇟`Decrement CSS unit by 10: `Option` + `⇟`
The Styles pane also supports shortcuts for incrementing/decrementing values.
Increment value: ↑Decrement value: ↓Increment by 10: ⇞ or ⇧↑Decrement by 10: ⇟ or ⇧↓Increment by 100: ⇧⇞Decrement by 100: ⇧⇟Increment by 0.1: ⌥↑Decrement by 0.1: ⌥↓

DevTools can now also preserve your position cursor history in Sources. This lets you cycle through your previous editing locations using Alt- and Alt+:

If you’ve found the above shortcuts helpful, you can pull most of them up via the DevTools settings menu. It looks a little like this:

The Settings page also allows you to configure how the editor behaves. This includes customizing the default indendation, toggling bracket matching, autocompletion and the display of whitespace characters.


Similar to your editor, the DevTools UI can also be customized (the theming for the syntax highlighting, the colors across each of the panels, the look of UI elements like tabs). Some of these themes make intelligent use of color to highlight the key pieces of UI in DevTools without taking your focus away from the code.
Some of our choice picks for DevTools themes are the following:
To install a theme:
Boom. You should be good to go. Themes can be found in a number of places, including the Web Store, DevThemez.com and GitHub.

DevTools also supports a few nice debugging helpers that can further augment your daily editing & debugging workflow. For instance, while debugging you can preview the inline values of JavaScript variables at the current point in time. Super powerful.

We hope you’ve found these DevTools tips helpful!.
Many of the SublimeText equivalents we’ve covered here work equally as well in other editors and we encourage you to spend time learning about the shortcuts in apps you use regularly. They’re powerful stuff and can make a HUUUGE difference to your workflow.
If you’re hungry for more and want to continue improving your workflow, grab Wes’ Sublime Text Book + Videos — use the code DEVTOOLS for $11 off. You can also check-out the first episode of Totally Tooling Tips for a look at Sublime Text plugins.
Heartz ❤
Addy Osmani and Wes Bos
Engineer at Google working with the Chrome & Polymer teams • Creator of TodoMVC, @Yeoman, Material Design Lite, Web Starter Kit• Passionate about web tooling
Engineering and technology articles for developers, written and curated by Googlers. The views expressed are those of the authors and don’t necessarily reflect those of Google.

It’s the break-up that nobody talks about.
The one that tears you apart in ways your high school boyfriends and hazy nights with strangers at the bar never really prepared you for.
The hardest goodbye.
Your college boyfriend might have promised you forever and always, but deep down, you knew that he never really meant it — and even if he did, it was only because he was just as naive as you were. There was always a hint of doubt in the back of your mind.
But you’ve never, ever looked into your best friend’s eyes and thought “Maybe one day, we’ll never speak again.”
You’re eight years old and bruised from falling off your bike, face-first onto solid concrete, bloody knees and scraped elbows, but she’s next to you, holding your hand.
You’re fifteen and you’ve locked yourself in the school bathroom, tears streaming down your face from your very first heartbreak, but she’s handing you tissues under the door, insisting that you skip sixth period together for a much needed ice cream break.
You’re eighteen and it’s your third night on campus, and you’re huddled together on the bottom bunk watching a rerun of Friends, and you tell her about how scared and lost and excited you are for the next four years, and she whispers back — me too.
You’re twenty-one and thirteen shots in, wondering if this is really how you should’ve celebrated your birthday, but she’s right behind you, holding back your hair as you regurgitate a night of regrets into the graffiti-ed stalls of the local dive.
You’re twenty-three and waving goodbye from the train platform, as she stares out the window and your eyes meet — and you’re both off to cities on opposite coasts, knowing that the miles and the times zones that separate you will inevitably tear you apart.
Then before you know it, you’re twenty-five and so caught up, lost in your busy schedule of nine-to-five meetings, soul cycling, and a disastrous string of first dates. You’re checking your phone between errands when you see a text from a number you haven’t dialed in years, saying — “Hey, I’m in town, let’s catch up over coffee?”
So you’re sitting across the table and staring at the girl who first met your gaze across the brightly-decorated first grade classroom, who walked over to your desk and declared, “Let’s be best friends.”
She looks up from the murky brown swirl of half and half dissolving in the bitter cup of watered-down espresso. It’s the same blue eyes and freckled smile you’ve always known—and she laughs quietly as she tells you about this guy she’s seeing, and this project she’s working on, and this juice cleanse that she’s planning to try before her trip to Cabo — but it’s all a flutter of small talk and meaningless words.
You smile politely and look away.
The drifting dust sparkles in the dim cafe light, and the skies outside are a musty shade of grey.
All you can think about is skinned knees, mint chocolate chip ice cream, Ross and Rachel, birthday shots, graduation smiles, and that feeling of losing each other forever.
Everything is almost exactly the same as it once was.
But the coffee tastes burnt, and the afternoon fades, and you’re nothing more than strangers once again.
Avid lover of green tea, old films, classic novels, and the 1950s. Always trying to get ahead of light. I stand for #feminism and #womenintech.
Sharing our ideas and experiences

I visited Google a few weeks ago and, after almost getting arrested, my mind was blown.
First, Claudia wandered into the garage where they were actually making or fixing the driverless cars. When they finally realized she was wandering around, security had to escort her out.
We got scared and we thought we were going to get in trouble or thrown out.
Then we met with a friend high up at Google and learned some of the things Google was working on.
Nothing was related to search. Everything was related to curing cancer (a bracelet that can make all the cancer cells in your body move towards the bracelet), automating everything (cars just one of those things), Wi-Fi everywhere (Project Loon) and solving other “billion person problems”.
A problem wasn’t considered worthy unless it could solve a problem for a billion people.
So now Alphabet is aligning itself towards this strategy: a holding company that owns and invests in other companies that can solve billion person problems.
It’s not divided up by money. It’s divided up by mission.
I want to do this in my personal life also.
Just analyzing Larry Page’s quotes from the past ten years is a guidebook for “billion person success” and for personal success.
Here are some of his quotes (in bold):
“If you’re changing the world, you’re working on important things. You’re excited to get up in the morning.”
To have well-being in life you need three things: A) a feeling of competence or growth. B) good emotional relationships. C) freedom of choice.
Being able to wake up excited in the morning is an outcome of well-being.
Feeling like every day you are working on a billion-person problem will give you those three aspects of well-being.
At the very least, when I wake up I try to remember to ask: Who can I help today?
Because I’m a superhero and this is my secret identity.
“Especially in technology, we need revolutionary change, not incremental change.”
Too often we get stuck in “good enough”. If you build a business that supports your family and maybe provides for retirement then that is “good enough”.
If you write a book that sells 1000 copies then that is “good enough.”
You ever wonder why planes have gotten slower since 1965? The Dreamliner 787 is actually slower than the 747.
That’s ok. It’s good enough to get people across the world and save on fuel costs.
It’s only the people who push past the “good enough syndrome” that we hear about: Elon Musk building a space ship. Larry Page indexing all knowledge. Elizabeth Holmes potentially diagnosing all diseases with a pin prick.
Isaac Asimov wrote classic science fiction like “The Foundation Series” but it wasn’t good enough for him. He ended up writing 500 more books, writing more books than anyone in history.
Larry Page keeps pushing so that every day he wakes up knowing he’s going to go past “good enough” that day.
What does your “good enough” day look like. What’s one thing that moves you past that?
“My job as a leader is to make sure everybody in the company has great opportunities, and that they feel they’re having a meaningful impact and are contributing to the good of society.”
Whenever I’ve managed companies and have had the small opportunity to be a leader I’ve judged my success on only one thing:
Does the employee at night go home and call his or her parents and say, “guess what I did today!”
I’m not sure this always worked. But I do think Larry Page lifts all his employees to try to be better versions of themselves, to try to surpass him, to try and change the world.
If each employee can say, “who did I help today” and have an answer, then that is a good leader.
Empowering others, empowers you.
“Lots of companies don’t succeed over time. What do they fundamentally do wrong? They usually miss the future.”
The stock market is near all time highs. And yet every company in the original Dow Jones market index (except for GE) has gone out of business.
Even US Steel, which built every building in the country for an entire century, has gone bankrupt.
Never let the practical get in the way of the possible.
It’s practical to focus on what you can do right now.
But give yourself time in your life to wonder what is possible and to make even the slightest moves in that direction.
We’re at maybe 1% of what is possible. Despite the faster change, we’re still moving slow relative to the opportunities we have. I think a lot of that is because of the negativity… Every story I read is Google vs someone else. That’s boring. We should be focusing on building the things that don’t exist.
Sometimes I want to give up on whatever I’m working on. I’m not working on major billion person problems.
And sometimes I think I write too much about the same thing. Every day I try to think, “What new thing can I write today” and I actually get depressed when I can’t think of something totally new.
But I am working on things that I think can help people. And if you are out side of people’s comfort zones, if you are breaking the normal rules of society, people will try to pull you down.
Larry Page didn’t want to be defined by Google for his entire life. He wants to be defined by what he hasn’t yet done. What he might even be afraid to do.
I wonder what my life would be like if I started doing all the things I was afraid to do. If I started defining my life by all the things I have yet to do.
“Many leaders of big organizations, I think, don’t believe that change is possible. But if you look at history, things do change, and if your business is static, you’re likely to have issues.”
Guess which company had the original patent that ultimately Larry Page derived his own patent (that created google) from?
Go ahead. Think a second. Guess.
An employee of this company created the patent and tried to get them to use it to catalog information on the web.
They refused.
So Robin Li, an employee of The Wall Street Journal, quit the newspaper of capitalism (who owned his patent), moved to China (a communist country), and created Baidu.
And Larry Page modified the patent, filed his own, and created Google.
And the Wall Street Journal got swallowed up by Rupert Murdoch and is dying a slow death.
“I think as technologists we should have some safe places where we can try out new things and figure out the effect on society.”
A friend of mine is writing a novel but is afraid to publish it. “Maybe it will be bad,” he told me.
Fortunately we live in a world where experimentation is easy. You can make a 30 page novel, publish it on Amazon for nothing, use an assumed name, and test to see if people like it.
Heck, I’ve done it. And it was fun.
Mac Lethal is a rapper who has gotten over 200 million views on his YouTube videos. Even Ellen had him on her show to demonstrate his skills.
I asked him, “do you get nervous if one of your videos gets less views than others?”
He told me valuable advice: “Nobody remembers your bad stuff. They only remember your good stuff.”
I live by that.
“If we were motivated by money, we would have sold the company a long time ago and ended up on a beach.”
Larry Page and Sergey Brin wanted to be academics. When they first patented Google, they tried to sell to Yahoo for $1 million (ONE MILLION DOLLARS).
When Yahoo laughed them out the door, they tried to sell to Excite for $750,000.
Excite laughed them out the door. Now an ex-employee of Google is the CEO of Yahoo. And the founder of Excite works at Google. Google dominates.
Money is a side effect of trying to help others. Trying to solve problems. Trying to move beyond the “good enough”.
So many people ask: “how do I get traffic?” That’s the wrong question.
If you ask every day, “How did I help people today?” then you will have more traffic and money than you could have imagined.
“Invention is not enough. Tesla invented the electric power we use, but he struggled to get it out to people. You have to combine both things: invention and innovation focus, plus the company that can commercialize things and get them to people.”
Everyone quotes the iconic story of Thomas Edison “failing” 10,000 times to get the electric lightbulb working.
I put failing in quotes because he was doing what any scientist does. He does many experiments until one works.
But what he did that was truly remarkable was convince New York City a few weeks later to light up their downtown using his lights.
The first time ever a city was lit up at night with electricity.
That’s innovation. That’s how the entire world got lit up.
“If you say you want to automate cars and save people’s lives, the skills you need for that aren’t taught in any particular discipline. I know — I was interested in working on automating cars when I was a Ph.D. student in 1995.”
Too often we get labeled by our degree and our job titles. Larry Page and Elon Musk were computer science majors. Now they build cars and space ships.
David Chang was a competitive golfer as a kid, majored in religious studies in college, and then had random gopher jobs in his 20s.
The gopher jobs all happened to be in restaurants so he became familiar with how the business was run.
Then he started probably the most popular restaurant in NYC, momofoku. A dozen or so restaurants later, he is one of the most successful restauranteurs in history.
Peter Thiel worked as a lawyer in one of the top law firms in NY. When he quit in order to become an entrepreneur, he told me that many of his colleagues came up to him and said, “I can’t believe you are escaping”.
Escaping the labels and titles and hopes that everyone else has for us is one of the first steps in Choosing Ourselves for the success we are meant to have.
We define our lives from our imagination and the things we create with our hands.
“It really matters whether people are working on generating clean energy or improving transportation or making the Internet work better and all those things. And small groups of people can have a really huge impact.”
What I love about this quote is that he combines big problems with small groups.
A small group of people created Google. Not Procter & Gamble. Or AT&T.
Even at Apple, when Steve Jobs wanted to create the Macintosh, he moved his small group to a separate building so they wouldn’t get bogged down in the big corporate bureaucracy that Apple was becoming.
Ultimately, they fired him for being too far from the corporate message.
Years later, when Apple was failing, they brought him back. What did he do? He cut most of the products and put people into small groups to solve big problems.
Before his death he revolutionized the movie industry, the computer industry, the music industry, TVs, and now even watches (watch sales have plummeted after the release of the Apple Watch).
All of this from a guy who finished one semester of studying calligraphy in college before dropping out.
Studying the history of Apple is like studying a microcosm of the history of how to create big ideas. Larry Page is recreating this with his new corporate structure.
“We don’t have as many managers as we should, but we would rather have too few than too many.”
The 20th century was the century of middle-class corporatism. It even became a “law” called “The Peter Principle” — everyone rises to their level of incompetence.
One of the problems society is having now is that the entire middle layer of management is being demoted, outsourced, replaced by technology, and fired.
This is not a bad or a good thing (although it’s scary). But it’s a return to the role of masters and apprentices without bureaucracy and paperwork in the middle.
It’s how things get done. When ideas go from the head into action with few barriers in the middle.
To be a successful employee, you have to align your interests with those of the company, come up with ideas that further help the customers, and have the mandate to act on those ideas, whether they work or not.
That’s why the employee who wrote much of the code inside the Google search engine, Craig Silverstein, is now a billionaire.
Where is he now? He’s an employee at online education company, The Khan Academy.
“If you ask an economist what’s driven economic growth, it’s been major advances in things that mattered — the mechanization of farming, mass manufacturing, things like that. The problem is, our society is not organized around doing that.”
Google is now making advances in driverless cars, delivery drones, and other methods of automation.
Everyone gets worried that this will cost jobs. But just look at history. Cars didn’t ruin the horse industry. Everyone simply adjusted.
TV didn’t replace books. Everything adjusted. The VCR didn’t shut down movies.
The Internet didn’t replace face to face communication (well, the jury is still out).
“What is the one sentence summary of how you change the world? Always work hard on something uncomfortably exciting!”
Not everyone wants to create a driverless car. Or clean energy. Or solve a billion person problem.
But I have a list of things that are uncomfortably exciting to me.
They are small, stupid things. Like I’d like to write a novel. Or perform standup comedy. Or maybe start another business based on my ideas for helping people.
Every day I wake up a tiny bit afraid. But I also try to push myself a little closer in those directions. I know then that’s how I learn and grow.
Sometimes I push forward. Sometimes I don’t. I want to get more comfortable with being uncomfortable.
“I do think there is an important artistic component in what we do. As a technology company I’ve tried to really stress that.”
Nobody knows what the definition of Art is.
How about: something that doesn’t exist except in the imagination, that you then bring out into the real world that has some mix of entertainment, enlightenment, and betterment.
I don’t know. Something like that.
Certainly the iPad is a work of art. And the iPad has created works of art. And when I first saw a driverless car I thought, “that’s beautiful”.
I’m going to try and put my fingerprint on something today. And maybe it will be art.
“The idea that everyone should slavishly work so they do something inefficiently so they keep their job — that just doesn’t make any sense to me. That can’t be the right answer.”
We’ve been hypnotized into thinking that the “normal life” is a “working life”.
If you don’t “go to work” then you must be sick or on the tiny bit of vacation allotted to you each year.
What if everything you did you can inject a little bit of leisure, a little bit of fun into it.
I have fun writing, except when I think I have to meet a deadline (work). I have fun making a business that people actually use except when I think about money too much (work).
When you are at the crossroads and your heart loves one path and doesn’t love the other, forget about which path has the money and the work, take the path you love.
“We want to build technology that everybody loves using, and that affects everyone. We want to create beautiful, intuitive services and technologies that are so incredibly useful that people use them twice a day. Like they use a toothbrush. There aren’t that many things people use twice a day.”
What a great idea for a list of the day!
What are ten things that can be invented that people would use twice a day?
“You need to invent things and you need to get them to people. You need to commercialize those inventions. Obviously, the best way we’ve come up with doing that is through companies.”
I was speaking to Naveen Jain, who made his billions on an early search engine, InfoSpace.
He just started a company to mine rare earth minerals on the Moon.
But his real goal is extra-planetary colonization.
Somehow we got around to the question of why have a company in the middle of that. He has billions. He can just go straight for the colonization part.
He said, “Every idea has to be sustainable. Profitability is proof that an idea is sustainable.”
“You may think using Google’s great, but I still think it’s terrible.”
K. Anders Ericsson made famous the “10,000 hour rule” popularized later by Malcom Gladwell.
The rule is: if you practice WITH INTENT for 10,000 hours then you will be world-class.
He then wondered why typists would often reach a certain speed level and then never improve no matter how many hours.
After doing research, its because they forgot the “With intent” part. They were satisfied with “good enough”.
You have to constantly come up with new metrics to measure yourself, to compete against yourself, to better the last plateau you reached.
Google is great. But it can be better. Having this mindset always forces you to push beyond the comfort zone.
Once they changed the way typists viewed their skills (by recreating the feeling of “beginner’s mind”) the typists continued to get faster.
“We have a mantra: don’t be evil, which is to do the best things we know how for our users, for our customers, for everyone. So I think if we were known for that, it would be a wonderful thing.”
Many people argue whether or not Google has succeeded at this. That’s not the point.
The point is: Values before Money.
A business is a group of people with a goal to solve a problem. Values might be: we want to solve a problem, we want the customer to be happy, we want employees to feel like they have upward mobility, etc.
Once you lose your values, you’ll lost the money as well. This why family-run businesses often die by the third generation (“Shirt sleeves to shirt sleeves in three generations).
The values of the founder got diluted through his descendants until the company failed.
I spoke to Dick Yuengling about this (CEO of the largest independent beer maker and a fifth generation business).
His family found an interesting way to solve the problem. The business is not inherited. Each generation has to BUY the business from the generation before it.
To do that, each generation needs its own values, its new way of doing things that keeps the brand fresh and ongoing.
“I think it is often easier to make progress on mega-ambitious dreams. Since no one else is crazy enough to do it, you have little competition. In fact, there are so few people this crazy that I feel like I know them all by first name.”
Our parents have our best interests at heart and tell us how to be good adults.
Our schools have our best interests.
Our friends, colleagues, sometimes our bosses, sometimes government, think they have our best interests.
But it’s only when everyone thinks you are crazy that you know you are going to create something that surprises everyone and really makes your own unique handprint on the world.
And because you went out of the comfort zone, you’re only competing against the few other people as crazy as you are.
“You know what it’s like to wake up in the middle of the night with a vivid dream? And you know that if you don’t have a pencil and pad by the bed, it will be completely gone by the next morning. Sometimes it’s important to wake up and stop dreaming. When a really great dream shows up, grab it.”
For every article I’ve ever written, there’s at least ten more I left behind in the middle of the night thinking I would remember in the morning.
I have to beat myself in the head. I . Will. Not. Remember….Must. Write. Down.
It’s hard to wake up. And that’s the only thing worth remembering. It’s hard to wake up.
“I have always believed that technology should do the hard work — discovery, organization, communication — so users can do what makes them happiest: living and loving, not messing with annoying computers! That means making our products work together seamlessly.”
This is a deep question — who are you? If you have a mechanical hand, is that “you”?
Conversely, if you lose a hand, did you lose a part of you. Are you no longer a complete person? The complete you?
If an implant is put into your brain to access Google, does that effect who you view your self to be?
When books were invented, memory suffered. We no longer had to remember as much, because we can look things up.
Does that make our brains less human?
I bet memory has suffered with the rise of Google. Does this mean our consciousness has suffered?
When we created fire, we outsourced part of our digestion to this new invention. Did this make our stomachs less human?
With technology taking care of the basic tasks of our brain and body, it allows us to achieve things we couldn’t previously dream possible.
It allows us to learn and explore and to create past the current comfort zone. It allows us to find the happiness, freedom, and well-being we deserve.
“Over time, our emerging high-usage products will likely generate significant new revenue streams for Google as well as for our partners, just as search does today.“
This is it. This is why Larry Page has re-oriented Google into Alphabet.
Don’t waste your most productive energies solving a problem that now only has incremental improvements.
Re-focus the best energies on solving harder and harder problems.
Always keeping the value of “how can I help a billion people” will keep Google from becoming a Borders bookstore (which went out of business after outsourcing all of their sales to Amazon).
How does this apply to the personal?
Instead of being a cog in the machine for some corporation, come up with ways to automate greater abundance.
Always understand that coming up with multiple ways to help people is ultimately the way to create the biggest impact.
Impact then creates health, friendship, competence, abundance, and freedom.
Oh my god, this answer is too long. And believe it or not, I cut it in half.
If I can just wake up every day and remind myself of these quotes by Larry Page I know I will have a better life.
But this is also why he created Alphabet and put Google underneath it.
To save the world. To save me.
More From James
Latest Podcast: Ep 125: Rich Roll & Julie Piatt — Quit The NonsenseIs it possible to transform your life on the eve of your 40th birthday, and experience meaning, vitality, and purpose like you’ve never before imagined?
Latest Ask Altucher: Ep 332: Ask MollieJames delves into the mind of his 13-year-old daughter Mollie today.
Recommended Article: I Want To Be Like Google When I Grow UpDear Google, I sort of want to have sex with you. Or I want you to be my father. Or my best friend. I don’t know, I feel so nervous writing this letter.
For some reason, I've turned myself inside out and all my guts have spilled onto my blog. One day I'll run out of stuff but not yet.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Last week I was on my way to visit Medium’s headquarters in San Francisco to discuss a project that I’m working on, mainly focused around police brutality. Funnily enough (or not so), I ended up being over an hour late, because this happened.
I recorded the incident August 4th 2015 during the lunch hour. It involves a Black man who was taken down by police in the mid-Market area of San Francisco, between 7th and 8th streets. Though the takedown didn’t occur directly outside of the Twitter building on 9th street, I began to see outlines of the incident unfold from there; a limping Black figure, wearing black, increasingly cornered by a wall of blue. By the time I had crossed 8th street, I was pulling out my phone as fast as I could.
Witnesses said there had been a call about somebody waving sticks around. No one, at least no one that I stayed long enough after the filming, could say for sure where the call came from. One woman said that she heard someone say that one of the deli managers called. By the time I arrived where Joe Bland was (as we’ll call him), several officers had arrived on the scene, and forced this man to the ground, which is where this footage begins. And they held him down, much of the time half-naked, for at least half an hour on one of San Francisco’s busiest streets.
The sticks? They were his crutches. You can hear people in the background around say so much. From my vantage point on the shore of 8th street, I could see the man reluctantly hand over his crutches. The man, it turned out, only had one leg; the other was a prosthetic. It is often twisted and backwards in the video. And this was the crux of the heightened tension between the police and Joe Bland; they wanted his crutches and he did not want to give them away. “What are you doing this for?” he asked so many times. “These are my crutches. I use these to walk.” He repeats this throughout the footage. An officer can be seen at the 5 second time-mark stomping on the man’s prosthetic leg. In further efforts to subdue a man already on the ground with four people on top of him, they stood on his leg, held it, and twisted it around even after they had cuffed him and pinned him to the piss-stained concrete.
Even when restrained and clearly unable to walk, several officers continued to hold him down to the ground.
This version of the video is 11 minutes long (the incident actually went on way longer and I have roughly 30 minutes of footage) but here’s a brief summary of what you can see.
5 seconds in, you can see a cop literally stomp this man’s real leg and prosthetic leg.
At 10 seconds, the man-handling of his head begins.
At 22 seconds the man says, “What the fuck is you doing this to me?”
Around 1:35, the “Blue Wall” begins to form to block my filming.
Around 3:11, you can see that the man is partially nude, his ass is exposed. You can also hear me responding to the things that officers are saying to me, even if you can’t really hear them. Among the things they said: “You don’t live here,” “What do you do?” and “Oh, you’re a journalist, right, for who?”
Around 3:55, you can’t hear him, but the man on the ground says, “they’re going to shoot me” and then you can clearly hear someone behind me say, “They ain’t gonna shoot you man, that’s why we have these cameras out here.”
4:00 the wall begins to deepen and you can also see his nude backside completely exposed.
Around 6:00 he begins saying how much it hurts — “this shit hurts” and at 6:44, he says, “ That shit hurts…I have a fucking sore, an infection, on my leg.”
Around 7:00 the man begins asking, “What the fuck is wrong with you, is this what you do? [inaudible? something “treat me”?] Is this respectable? When I say ‘no’, is this what you do to me?”
At 7:25 he’s explaining to them, as he has before — and other people in the background have also corroborated — that he was walking with the sticks that were confiscated from him.
It goes on.
This isn’t a video of a man getting killed. Some might watch this and think in that general, indemnifying way, that this video is an exceptional case of an isolated case of poor policing. I’d have to disagree — and not respectfully — with you.
These incidents are so quotidian, so mundane, that they do not merit a mention in even passing on the local news. Which is to say, this is everyday harassment. Which is to say, that we’ve normalized and habitualized the kind of policing in San Francisco and the rest of America that brutalizes the most vulnerable people, which strips them of their human dignity, the agency to their bodies — to walk with crutches when physically disabled, to have this body unviolated — when in actuality, they are whom the police are especially supposed to be protecting.
In the book Between The World and Me, Ta-Nehisi Coates writes, “In America, it is traditional to destroy the Black body — it is heritage.” This is a literal and physical example of what he means by this. To say that this footage is exceptional or special is to be blind to Eric Garner’s death tape, to Walter Scott’s murder on video, it is to agree that John Crawford did not have the right to walk around Walmart with a toy gun in an open carry state. Yes, it’s racial profiling. Yes, it’s racism. Yes, it’s inequality. This is an American heritage.
But before you think that this is not San Francisco’s heritage, it would be better to first ask the Joe Blands, those that you may step over on any given day because you are busy, the BART is packed and they smell violently, what they think San Francisco’s heritage is, as it pertains to the police. Before you think that this is not San Francisco’s heritage, it is better to wonder why Black people, 7% of San Francisco’s population, are 7 times more likely to be arrested than White people. If you must believe that this video and the flood of others like it are exceptional instances of isolated brutality, then let us too believe that the stomping of vulnerable Black bodies and Black (prosthetic) limbs with pulverizing intent are what one means when they say, American exceptionalism.
I don’t know who Joe Bland is. I and others tried to get his name, but we could not make it out very well. Long after my meeting at Medium, watching the video by frames and discussing this with Bobbie Johnson about what to do next (who did a tremendous job in helping this come together and edit this), I was still at a loss for exactly what he’d done. But I do know that the police didn’t even put him under arrest: SFFD medics strapped him, against his will, to a stretcher and took him to hospital, for no apparent reason. I do know that he was humiliated, crying and deeply upset, but that and being physically handicapped are not enough reasons to be sent to the hospital. I do know that 14 officers to take down a presumably homeless man with one leg seems like a waste of resources and unreasonable.
The San Francisco Police Department is not new to controversy or to this American heritage. This year it’s been embroiled in a racist texting scandal, with officers caught sending messages calling African-Americans “monkeys” and encouraging the killing of “half breeds.” Earlier this year several officers and former officers were sentenced to jail for drug dealing, and pocketing money found during drug raids — some of which were unconstitutional. Just last week it came to light that the department has requested a mine-resistant armored vehicle, and recently the department was also subject to an investigation into faulty crime lab evidence —with as many as 1,400 criminal cases in the spotlight. A 2014 KQED review of police-involved shootings between 2005 and 2013 found that 58% of the people killed by the San Francisco Police Department were mentally ill. In an interview with the City Democratic Club in 2014, San Francisco’s chief of police, Greg Suhr, reported that his men are becoming “more and more charming.”
Speaking of which, Greg Suhr earns $320,000 per year — more than any other police chief in America. He also makes more than the mayor of San Francisco and the governor of California — $285,000 and $174,000 respectively.
This happened in the heart of one of America’s most affluent cities, literally outside the headquarters of Twitter. One block away are the headquarters of Uber, which is on pace to be the fastest-growing company in history. There are dozens of technology companies and buzzy internet media businesses along this stretch of Market Street, worth many, many billions of dollars. And not to my knowledge, did any of their employees or representatives come out to look at what the police were doing. And if they did, none of them have since publicly wondered what and how to use the powers of innovation, access and capital to change the narrative of police brutality in San Francisco and America. Perhaps they did not know that Joe Bland had been brutalized. Perhaps they were looking from their lofts and skyscrapers, on their way to the coffee machines or the in-house catered lunch and did see, but they too have normalized this mundane, quotidian and brutal American heritage. Whatever the internal struggles were, no one came.
And what could they do? If you’re sitting in your office in the Tenderloin, or mid-Market, or downtown San Francisco, what can you really do?
You are not powerless. You are rich and empowered, despite how you feel after paying rent and the IRS. You have a voice, a vote, a say in how San Francisco polices itself, in how it treats people. Greg Suhr and his officers work for you, not the other way around. As such, the police act on the democratic will of the people and if the current policing does not fit your will, you can change that.
So here are three things you can do.
So. The Haiti-ians need to come to America.
The story you’ve been missing.
By JON WESTENBERG
You could make something right now. If you wanted to stop reading, grab a sheet of butcher’s paper and brainstorm ideas, you could probably come up with half a dozen ideas for apps, books or products. Ideas aren’t the hard part, after all — just ask Tom Haverford.
You could build a Wordpress site and start harassing your friends to test the concept. You could start writing op-ed pieces on Medium and put “Founder” or “Author” in your Twitter bio within 48 hours. You could throw up a landing page, post the first chapter of a book and start pushing it on Product Hunt.
Where things get tough is when you’re trying to make something that people genuinely give a shit about. You don’t want your dream to die in the chamber, because nobody read it, watched it, used it or listened to it. The deafening silence surrounding your work can crush your soul.

If you want to make something that people really care about, that they actually give a hot shit about, you have to care about it yourself. Because if you don’t, then try as you might, it’ll come out in the final product.
The reason for this?
The only way you’ll be able to consistently work, when you don’t want to work, consistently try when you don’t want to try, is by deeply and honestly caring about your work.

The best writing advice I have ever heard was to write specifically for someone I know. It’s a genius idea. Every time I go to create something, or build something I think about who I know that would benefit from what I’m doing.
If you have something that you care enough about to make, you have to ask the next question — who are you making it for? What information do they need? What turn of phrase would stop them in their tracks? What is their single pain point that the product could solve, or their secret story that your novel would be able to touch and cultivate into a real emotional response?


You need to ask yourself whether you have the courage, the strength, the motivation and the passion to make what you want to make. And I mean really ask yourself, because when you first come up with an idea you can get so caught up in it that you can’t see anything else.
When that feeling starts to die down, or you get used to it, you can realise that you don’t have the real raw power to be able to finish and follow through. That’s not a bad thing; there is nothing wrong with recognising that a project isn’t right for you. Maybe there’s another project that is.
It’s not enough just to care about what you’re making — it has to feel right.

Have you ever watched one of those reality TV singing competitions? You’ve probably seen a hundred young people, eyes shining, clutching microphones and talking about their dreams. They’ll explain that ever since they were kids, they wanted to be singers.
They hardly ever say they wanted to sing. When it comes down to it, half the time it’s because actually singing isn’t the end goal. They want the trappings and lifestyle and the breaks of being a singer.
The same is true for anything you could make. Do you want to make X, or do you want to be the person who made X? Because if you don’t care about the act of making something, and if you don’t want to get out there every day and try to make something, you might as well quit.

If you want to write a book that can break someone’s heart — work hard.
If you want to start a business that changes the world — work hard.
If you want to draw a comic book that expresses everything you are, and dream about — work hard.


Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

Last Saturday, I read the 6,000-word New York Times piece, “Inside Amazon,” in the car on my way to the beach. I sat quietly in the front seat, glued to my phone while my husband flapped his hand gesturing for help with Google maps. My two-year-old danced to the sounds of Raffi in the back. When we got to the beach, we set up our spot, complete with dinosaur sand toys. My husband and daughter made a beeline for the water. I put on my Coolibar SPF 50 jacket to cover my skin from the sun. Then I sat down in my chair and wept.
Until July of 2014, I worked for Amazon. As a relatively successful young book editor, I’d been hired by the company in 2011 to help launch its New York City-based book publishing outpost created to commission original content by name writers. The media landscape was continuing to evolve; everyone was in everyone else’s lane. It was a big opportunity, one many people inside the publishing industry told me privately I would be crazy not to take. I was drawn to Amazon’s spirit of innovation, its agility, and its culture of excellence. I was about to start Columbia’s Executive MBA program when the offer came in. Why not, as the saying goes, “earn to learn,” I thought. I took the job.
I was dazzled by the people I met in different pockets of the company those first few months. They were all smart. They were all lightning-fast. And, I quickly noted, when it came to leadership positions, they were almost all men. “So, who’s our Sheryl Sandberg?” I asked a VP. He cited General Counsel Michelle Wilson, the sole woman on Jeff Bezos’s executive team. The next year, in 2012, Wilson left the company to take maternity leave. She never returned.
In 2013, during my second year at Amazon, I had a baby of my own. Six weeks after my daughter was born, I was diagnosed with cancer. I was given detailed instructions by my oncologist’s staff on how to “pump and dump” my breast milk for 24 hours to prevent my daughter from ingesting radioactive matter. There I was, soothing my infant, unsure of whether or not I would be around to see her first birthday.
After my surgery, while I was still on maternity leave, I received a form letter saying that the health insurance provided by my employer had been terminated. Dozens of panicked emails and phone calls later, the whole thing was, I was told, a glitch in the system. After a week of back and forth, I was offered COBRA coverage, by which point I had already switched to my husband’s insurance, where I remained for the duration of my care. I chalked it up to a horrendous administrative error but remain disappointed that a company of Amazon’s size didn’t have better mechanisms in place to prevent something like that from happening during an employee’s maternity leave.
After a five-month leave, I was nervous and excited to return to work, and I showed up that first day back with a big smile and a phone full of baby pictures to share. I figured I’d catch up with folks and get a high-level update on how the business was doing, since the strategy had evolved from the time I was hired. Here’s what happened instead: I was taken to lunch by a woman I barely knew. Over Cobb salad she calmly explained that all but one of my direct reports — the people I had hired — were now reporting to her. In the months that followed, I was placed on a dubious performance improvement plan, or PIP, a signal at Amazon that your employment is at risk. Not long after that I resigned.
The truth is, I’ve moved on. I’m healthy. I have a great job doing work I love. There’s no question Amazon is an incredible company. I met some of the strongest, most brilliant women of my career there. Unfortunately, many of those women have left. And the voices commenting on the New York Times piece so far have been predominantly male leaders of male-dominated teams.
Jeff: You asked for direct feedback. Women power your retail engine. They buy diapers. They buy books. They buy socks for their husbands on Prime. On behalf of all the people who want to speak up but can’t: Please, make Amazon a more hospitable place for women and parents. Reevaluate your parental leave policies. You can’t claim to be a data-driven company and not release more specific numbers on how many women and people of color apply, get hired and promoted, and stay on as employees. In the absence of meaningful public data — especially retention data — all we have are stories. This is mine.
Julia Cheiffetz is an Executive Editor at HarperCollins Publishers. She is on the Board of the Lower Eastside Girls Club.
The Fuckboy, in his current form, aims for the night, aims for the break, goals to ghost. The Softboy strings you along under loftier auspices. He is Nice yet Complicated; this isn’t just a hookup. It’s a series of such.
The Softboy did not talk to you at the party, but he’s adding you on Facebook while you’re on the train home. Soon, he wants to know if you’d “like to get drinks.”
“Or something.”
He discusses his ex-girlfriend within the first thirty minutes of the date. He talks about her in a sad, wistful way rather than a snarky, resentful way. The older Softboy will say, “Oh well, it’s in the past.” The younger Softboy will say, “So it goes.”
The Softboy may be named Tom. Or Phillip.
The Softboy wears a plain t-shirt or sweater and orders cheap beer backed with bottom-shelf whiskey. He is neither Bro nor Nerd. He is sensitive yet amusingly crass. He doesn’t want you to know he has feelings. He wants you to know that he has feelings and he is completely okay with that.
The Fuckboy is perplexed that you were upset when he forgot to text you for three days then sent “what are you up to” at last call. The Softboy knows this behavior is selfish and cruel, though his desire to get laid can trump this. He feels shame. He does it again.
He wants to know if you’re mad at him. He already knows.
The Softboy doesn’t want to talk to you about The Wire. He concedes that it is “objectively good television” yet “ultimately problematic” and “undeserving of its lionization.” Obviously, he is an Ally.
He has some art to show you.
The Softboy does not necessarily have a soft body. In fact he is often wiry and angular.
However: the heavier the Softboy, the thicker the beard.
He is emotionally intelligent but does nothing with this knowledge. He is artistic. He is aware. He is still a dick.
The Softboy sends you songs via Gchat while you’re at work.
He hasn’t texted you back for a reason; he was not blowing you off. He’s had a Weird Day. Or maybe he’s Trying To Figure Some Shit Out. Sometimes, he finds pride in declaring that he Just Needs A Night To Himself.
The Softboy is an Underdog. He has a hurricane sulk.
He resurfaces seconds before the final ember extinguishes.
The Softboy wields guilt like a floral knife.
Writer | California Son | alan-hanson.com

I’m a professional YouTube creator. Some people think that this is some kind of joke but I have 30 employees. All of them work in the online video industry, about half of them work directly on producing videos for our educational YouTube channels. We’re a small, profitable business.
Facebook is an interesting, emerging platform for us. Reaching an audience is valuable, even if there’s no way to turn that value into money. So I’m excited about the potential future of Facebook as a video platform.
But there are a few things that make me wary, not of their ability to grow my business, but of whether they give a shit about creators, which is actually pretty important to me. Let’s go through them one by one.
If I embed a YouTube video or Vine on Facebook, only a tiny fraction of my audience will actually see it. But if I post the same video natively on Facebook, suddenly it’s in everyone’s feed everywhere! This data is pretty easy to come by for us, and Facebook is happy to admit the strategy. A SciShow YouTube video embedded on Facebook will reach between 20,000 and 50,000 people and be viewed by hundreds of people. The same video uploaded natively will get a reach of between 60,000 and 150,000 and be “viewed” by tens of thousands (more on what those “views” actually mean later).
Sonja Foust of Duke University actually took the time to crunch some real numbers on this, and she was kind enough to allow me to share them with you:
So Facebook is pushing Facebook video. I guess that’s their prerogative (unless someone decides there’s an anti-trust argument to be made.) But as a creator, it seems like an abuse of their power.

In our analytics-obsessed world, it’s tempting to first ask how to measure whether something is a view, but if we take a step back and just ask what a “view” is, the answer becomes clearer. What is a view? It’s when someone watches the video. And Facebook counts views significantly before people could be said to be watching the video.
Facebook counts the “view” at the three second mark (whether or not the viewer has even turned on the sound) in the midst of a precipitous decline in retention. At that moment, 90% of people scrolling the page are still ‘watching’ this silent animated GIF. But by 30 seconds, when viewership actually could be claimed, only 20% are watching. 90% of people are being counted, but only 20% of people are actually “viewing” the video.
YouTube, on the other hand, counts views in a logical way…the view is counted at the point at which people seem to actually be engaging with the video and not just immediately clicking away. This is usually around 30 seconds, but of course is different for videos of different lengths.
This might seem a little like this is a victimless crime, but it fundamentally devalues the #1 metric of online video. The view is the thing that everyone talks about and it’s the thing creators sell to advertisers in order to make a living. Applying that word to something far less valuable is going to be extremely disruptive to creators. Ad agencies and brands are confused enough without Facebook muddying the waters by calling something a view when it is in no way a measure of viewership.
When Facebook says it has roughly the same number of views as YouTube, what they really mean is that they have roughly 1/5th of YouTube’s views, since they’re intentionally and blatantly over-counting to the detriment of everyone except them.

According to a recent report from Ogilvy and Tubular Labs, of the 1000 most popular Facebook videos of Q1 2015, 725 were stolen re-uploads. Just these 725 “freebooted” videos were responsible for around 17 BILLION views last quarter. This is not insignificant, it’s the vast majority of Facebook’s high volume traffic. And no wonder, when embedding a YouTube video on your company’s Facebook page is a sure way to see it die a sudden death, we shouldn’t be surprised when they rip it off YouTube and upload it natively. Facebook’s algorithms encourage this theft.
What is Facebook doing about it?
They’ll take the video down a couple days after you let them know. Y’know, once it’s received 99.9% of the views it will ever receive.
Creators have been yelling (apparently into a void) about this for over a year now. Fullscreen CEO George Strompolos shared his thoughts on Twitter last month:
And then he was joined by the Fine Brothers, who run one of the largest channels on YouTube
Destin Sandlin, who runs the “Smarter Every Day” channel released a video on the topic after a video of his was ripped and re-uploaded by a subsidiary of Bauer Media Group and received 17 million views on their Facebook page.
But most creators have responded, thus far, the same way as me. By shrugging our shoulders and saying “What am I gonna do about it…it’s Facebook, they’re massive.”
But that’s exactly what makes it so awful.
It’s no secret that YouTube was built, in part, on copyright infringement. Among the user generated content that drove traffic to YouTube in 2006 and 2007, there were plenty of Family Guy and Daily Show clips. But YouTube was a tiny start-up flying under the radar. As soon as it got big (and got bought) Google fixed this problem with “Content ID,” a system that analyzes every single video uploaded to YouTube and checks it against a massive database of known owned content.
It’s a little inexcusable that Facebook, a company with a market cap of $260 BILLION, launched their video platform with no system to protect independent rights holders. It wouldn’t be surprising if Facebook was working on a solution now which they can roll out conveniently after having made their initial claims at being the biggest, most important thing in video.
But even if they do have a system, it won’t function as well as Content ID. Content ID works so well largely because YouTube is good at monetizing content. So, instead of taking a video down, a copyright holder can claim the video and receive revenue from it. Content ID has claimed millions of videos and is responsible for over a billion dollars in revenue so copyright holders love it. But without a good system of monetization, Facebook can only remove videos, not send big checks to the owners of stolen content. For the copyright holder, interfacing with a profitless system is just a pain in the ass with no upside.
What to do? Well, the lack of searchability on Facebook makes it impossible for creators to discover when their content is being freebooted, so if you see suspect content, please reach out to the creator so they can take action. If you have any legal or technical solutions you think might work, please post those as responses to this. And above all, just know that this is an issue and share what you can with who you can. Facebook won’t hold itself accountable, but maybe they will if we make them.
Facebook is big enough that it shouldn’t need to resort to these tactics to build its video presence. It makes them look weak to be so excited about skyrocketing numbers if those numbers are based on cheating, lies, and theft.
Hank Green makes YouTube videos for a living on channels like SciShow, Crash Course, and Vlogbrothers. He also runs a merchandise company for internet creators (DFTBA Records), a conference for internet creators (VidCon), and his crowd-funding platform for internet creators (Subbable) was recently acquired by Patreon.
Internetainerpreneur
I think spatially, and so do you. Can you scratch your left ear without looking? Pick a booger out of your nose, without poking your brain? Remember where you left your keys? Can you type, without looking at your keyboard? Know which pocket your phone is in? Which way is up? Do you know where the bathroom is? Of course you do! We imagine multi-dimensional models in our minds, to help understand the complex world around us. We can also leverage this powerful way of thinking, to process more abstract information.
I believe the best software is an extension of the human brain. It lets us think naturally, and conforms to us, not the other way around. Translation of information should be the computer’s job, not ours. It’s what we built these digital slaves for. A great Spatial Interface meets our expectations of a physical model. Designed for human beings, it supports a mind, living in the dimensions of space and time. They are Interfaces that are sensible about where things lay. Like a well designed building, they’re easy to traverse through. One space flows into the other, without surprise.
To design a Spatial Interface, you need to think inside and outside the bounds of the screen. Think about the physicality of the objects in your interface. Where did they come from? Where will they go? How do they behave in respect to Kinetic influence? Do certain objects inherit physical properties of others? Where are you, relative to everything else?
These are hard questions to answer with words. Seems like a no-brainer, but I find it most effective to solve visual problems with pictures.
Diagrammatic Reasoning
When designing spatially, it helps to imagine an interface as a physical model, which can be manipulated, and travelled through. Rather than placing detached comps next to each other one-dimensionally, try thinking upper-dimensionally.
Here’s a breakdown of the Contextual Zooming paradigm that was key to creating Keezy Drummer.
You can visualize the relationships between dimensions as extrusions of lower dimensions. Each dimension creates a significantly more complex model to visualize.



We can design with time, by thinking about kinetic, Transitional Interfaces. Both Spatial & Temporal clues lead the eye around physical models.






Motion implies space. Movement re-enforces the physical characteristics of the spaces on and off the screen. Objects constrained using sensible, physical rules, help establish a clear model.


We’ve all seen this classic, list item deletion pattern. Swipe the cell, and it reveals a button behind it. Tap the icon, and the entire cell collapses.

What happens if we change the way the list item departs the screen?

If we cushion / ease the item exiting the screen, we suggest where it might stop. In this case, it stops a little short off screen. We might want to do this to imply a holding area, which could feed items back into the list. Maybe we could allow the user to swipe the viewport to the right hand side of the screen, revealing displaced list items.

If the item keeps accelerating, where does it end up? Out of reach? Are we banishing it into the void of outer space?

If the list item rotates and displaces along the x & y axis freely, does it come to rest off the grid? Is there gravity? Maybe it lands in a pile.



Z-translation implies depth.
The list item could flip over. It might fold in on itself like an accordion. Maybe it scrunches. The fill color could drain out of the cell like a liquid. I could go on with visual examples forever, but by now, I think you get the picture; one can encode quite a lot of meaning using motion and space.



Pretty conceptual, but Scorekeeper does a great job of creating focus. It isolates modes, rather than presenting the user with a bloated buffet of options to dig through. Complexity is hidden in secondary, and tertiary sub-interfaces. Each sub-interface is as simple as its parent.


Tinder famously employs a card paradigm. There’s an endless stack of cards which make use of z-depth. Toss a card from the stack to the right, for a babe you’re into, or throw them to the left to pass. Similarly, if you tap the heart or ‘x’ button, it automatically tosses the card to the respective side of screen, re-enforcing the function of space.
It’s a physical, kinetic model that’s familiar.


Secondary screens are placed along a horizontal continuum, which is reflected in the motion of the navigation, cascading to the content below. A great example of motion being leveraged to imply space.
I’m unsure if it’s intentional, but the interface for messaging your ‘matches’ happens to exist on the right hand side, within the same area you toss your Tinder crush card.



Tumblr’s model is simple. There’s a few contexts, connected with a tab bar. It’s easy to visualize if you imagine the interface from the perspective of a camera. A persistent toolbar follows us, as if attached to the camera we’re looking through. Though you don’t see explicit motion along the x-axis as we change contexts (as Tinder employs), there’s still a implicit feeling of space on either side of the columns.
None of this is groundbreaking.
What’s interesting is the use of the compose modal, triggered by touching the blue pencil icon. No matter where it’s touched, you are not transported to a new part of the interface, rather — you’re presented with a temporary offering, in a focused view. You have incredibly simple options: Either select a post type, or dismiss the menu. The view presents itself over the top of the content, as if it were a layer existing on a z-plane. Dismiss the view, and it returns to where it was summoned. Choose to make an action on it, you continue to move along the y-axis with the icons, implying a continuum. It’s like a conveyor belt on a production line.
My one gripe in Tumblr’s process, is that the metadata composer is presented with the insertion of a classic, master-detail view. If I were to push the interface further, I’d continue to present the next screen with y-axis motion, rather than introducing the extra x-dimension. This reduces the cognitive load required to imagine the spatial model.


A classic lightbox effect, but with a little more. Tap the photo, and it moves into the ‘foreground’. The background feed dims and recedes. Flick the photo away, and it returns back to its initial position, while the original container view zooms back into focus. It’s solid.



There’s a lot to learn, by deconstructing these expensive Frankensteins.

One of the most spatially confusing, while popular pieces of consumer software. To describe how Spotify’s interface makes use of space, would be to describe a rat’s nest of wires. I challenge you to effectively sketch it on a piece of paper.

A user of Spotify is exposed to obscure carousels, buried inside modals, stuffed inside list views, crammed into drawers, contained by drop-downs, tucked behind gestures. Each list item in the hamburger menu forces the user through a wild goose chase in order to perform a simple action. It’s like you have to play a choose your own adventure story to get anything done.

While it may seem baffling that a team of talented engineers & designers could produce such a monstrosity, it’s unsurprising when you take a look at the software development values of Spotify. A holistic approach to creating software is thrown out the window, in favor of ungrounded company memes.

…but to be fair, the rest of the competition in the music space doesn’t seem to get it either. Apple Music & Rdio’s interfaces are equally insufferable. There’s little, to no thought given to Space.

Praised for its use of spring physics, and wild animations, it seems remarkable on the surface. The Paper team made some cool tech, and even open sourced it. It’s fun to fling around. It ends there. Paper is a children’s interactive playbook for an iPad, rebranded and then crammed into a tiny iPhone. Ok, well it’s Push Pop Press shoehorned into Facebook.

There’s momentum scroll areas for days. Springs on springs on springs on springs. Cards that unfold like a shiny newspaper? You can pinch everything. The loudest hamburger menu in the world. Everything is simulated and moves for the sake of flair. It’s unnecessary kinetic toil. It’s fatiguing to traverse the amount of physical space described in the interface, let alone keep a model in the mind to remember where you are.
It’s a great example of going too far.

This one’s so obvious, I’m presenting it without any further comment.

How do we avoid the Rat’s Nest? We need to zoom out, and quite literally. Like I mentioned earlier, it helps immensely to think in terms of diagrammatic reasoning. Simple directions on the map result in a less chaotic journey through space.
Some tips:




I hope what I’ve penned down has encouraged you to think more Spatially. Go play some video games, and study the interfaces. Go outside. Observe the physicality of reality and your expectations of it. It’s in the DNA of the creations I’m inspired by, and the type of work I strive to produce.
I’ll be talking about this topic at Push Conference in Munich later this year. Feel free to email me: medium@pasquale.cool, or write to me on twitter @pasql
✌🏻

Special thanks:
Jake Lodwick, Eric Skogen, Mark Stultz, & Sebastiaan de With
Creative Director & Co-Founder of Keezy. http://pasquale.cool/
From the boys at Elepath Inc. http://elepath.com

Edit: At Facebook’s request I have again deactivated the *official* version of the extension. Furthermore, Facebook has deactivated location sharing from the desktop webpage so the extension will not work.
When I came to college Facebook Messenger became an integral part of my digital life. I quickly found that it was the easiest way to keep in touch with old high school friends, contact people I had just met, organize impromptu poker games with people I hardly knew, and everything in between. However, I didn't realize how much data about me Messenger was revealing to the people I chatted with until last week when I began tinkering with my message history.
As you may know, when you send a message from the Messenger app there is an option to send your location with it. What I realized was that almost every other message in my chats had a location attached to it, so I decided to have some fun with this data. I wrote a Chrome extension for the Facebook Messenger page (https://www.facebook.com/messages/) that scrapes all this location data and plots it on a map. You can get this extension here and play around with it on your message data.

You may not believe that there are enough of these location tagged messages to provide truly invasive data on any one person, since they must be on mobile, with GPS on, and choose to share their location for it to be sent… right?
What you should keep in mind is that the mobile app for Facebook Messenger defaults to sending a location with all messages.
Go ahead and see how many messages in your chats have locations attached. I’m guessing it’s a lot of them. And if this isn't already starting to get a bit weird, the first thing I noticed when I started to write my code was that the latitude and longitude coordinates of the message locations have more than 5 decimal places of precision, making it possible to pinpoint the sender’s location to less than a meter.
Once the extension was written I naturally started seeing what kind of things I could discover about my Facebook friends.
I am in a pretty active group chat with some of my brother’s friends (who I am friends with on Facebook but don’t know too well). They are all fairly active on the chat, posting once a day or more.
Let’s pick on the one who goes to Stanford. By simply looking at the cluster of messages sent late at night you can tell exactly where his dorm is, and in fact approximately where his room is located in that dorm.
Furthermore, by gathering a couple weeks’ worth of chat data on the map and looking at the location clusters you can even figure out his weekly schedule. With this you can predict exactly which building he would be in at a given time.
In fact I found that I could infer a schedule for almost everyone in this chat as well as the other active chats I am in.
I found that I could even do this for people who I am not Facebook friends with. I am currently in a large active chat to organize poker games with some fellow students, many of whom I am not Facebook friends with. However, I can still track their locations extremely accurately from the messages they send the group.
You can now see the fun (and slightly creepy) things this data allows you to do. But wait there's more! One day when I was chatting frequently with a friend of mine (@tomasreimers) the map allowed me to track his hour by hour locations. At the end of that day the location history on the map closely matched the location history collected by his phone.
Additionally, this map aggregates the location data from all the messages that I send. For the days I was frequently on messenger (posting to different conversations every hour or so), my location history on this map lined up very closely with my phone’s location history.
This means that if a few people who I am chatting with separately collude and send each other the locations I share with them, they would be able to track me very accurately without me ever knowing.
If you want to map your friends’ locations to see for yourself how fun (and creepy) this data is you can download the extension for Chrome here. The code is also available and open source on Github.
For those of you already wanting out here is a great guide on how to ensure you don’t send your locations from the Messenger app.

Let me reiterate that I still find Facebook Messenger extremely useful and use it religiously, albeit with location sharing now turned off. This may lead you to wonder if there really is a problem here, since there is always option to not share your exact coordinates with messages. However, everyone I have shown this extension to has been anywhere from surprised to appalled that this much of their very personal data is online for their friends (and even complete strangers) to access. So it is seems that there is an issue.
Let’s start at the root of the problem: why do so many people give up their location data so readily on Messenger?
The main problem is that every time you open your phone and send a single message it’s so easy to forget about your location data being attached to it. Furthermore, it seems so harmless to attach a location with a single message, but the problem is over time the information from these messages adds up.
Both of these issues in some way stem from the fact that locations are not only included by default, but also are rather subtly placed in the UI. The power of defaults on human behavior is well documented in psychology and suggests that few people will put in the effort to deviate from the default action of sharing. Furthermore, because there are no readily visible consequences to sharing your location, users are never incentivized to devote attention to what this default of sharing is actually revealing about them.
I decided to write this extension, because we are constantly being told how we are losing privacy with the increasing digitization of our lives, however the consequences never seem tangible. With this code you can see for yourself the potentially invasive usage of the information you share, and decide for yourself if this is something you should worry about.
Student at Harvard College in Computer Science and Mathematics. Find me at arankhanna.com
Open minded reading
The web is increasingly becoming a powerful resource that can easily help you learn something new everyday. These awesome sites are just what you need.

There is a good chance you’ll be able to put at least one of these learning tools to good use and come out as a better person than you were last year. These are some of the best websites that will make you smarter every day.
2. 99U (YouTube) — Actionable insights on productivity, organization, and leadership to help creative people push ideas forward.
3. Youtube EDU — The education videos that don’t have cute cats in boxes — but they do unlock knowledge.
4. WikiWand — A slick new interface for Wikipedia.
5. The long read (The Guardian) — In-depth reporting, essays and profiles.
6. TED — Great videos to open your mind on almost every topic.
7. iTunes U — Learning on the go, from some of the world’s top universities.
8. InsightfulQuestions (subreddit) — Intellectual discussions that are not necessarily genre-specific.
9. Cerego — Cerego helps you build personalized study plans based on your strengths and weaknesses to retain knowledge.
10. University of the People — Tuition-free online university that offers higher education in multiple course streams.
11. OpenSesame — Marketplace for online training, now with 22,000+ courses.
12. CreativeLive — Take free creative classes from the world’s top experts.
13. Coursera — Partnering with some of the top U.S. universities, Coursera offers massive open online courses for free.
14. University of reddit — the product of free intellectualism and is a haven for the sharing of knowledge.
15. Quora — You ask, the net discusses — with top experts and fascinating back and forth on everything.
16. Digital Photography School — Read through this goldmine of articles to improve your photography skills.
17. Umano -Explore the largest collection of audio articles powered by real people. Dropbox has acquired Umano. Brain Pickings is a great replacement for 17.
Brain Pickings — Insightful long form posts on life, art, science, design, history, philosophy, and more.
18. Peer 2 Peer University or P2PU, is an open educational project that helps you learn at your own pace.
19. MIT Open CourseWare is a catalog of free online courses and learning resources offered by MIT.
20. Gibbon — This is the ultimate playlist for learning.
21. Investopedia — Learn everything you need to know about the world of investing, markets, and personal finance.
22. Udacity offers interactive online classes and courses in higher education.
23. Mozilla Developer Network offers detailed documentation and learning resources for web developers.
24. Future learn — enjoy free online courses from top universities and specialist organisations.
25. Google Scholar — provides a search of scholarly literature across many disciplines and sources, including theses, books, abstracts and articles.
26. Brain Pump — A place to learn something new everyday.
27. Mental Floss — Test your knowledge with amazing and interesting facts, trivia, quizzes, and brain teaser games.
28. Learnist — Learn from expertly curated web, print and video content.
29. DataCamp — Online R tutorials and data science courses.
30. edX — Take online courses from the world’s best universities.
31. Highbrow — Get bite-sized daily courses to your inbox.
32. Coursmos — Take a micro-course anytime you want, on any device.
33. Platzi — Live streaming classes on design, marketing and code.

“What could be more important to a learner than proficiency in good thinking?” Peter Worley
The author is the founder at Alltopstartups (where he shares startup resources) and Postanly (a free weekly newsletter that delivers the best, most popular and long form posts from top publishers around the web). Follow him on Twitter @Alltopstartups.
Entrepreneur. Blogger. Author. Founder at Alltopstartups.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

Life is exhausting. No joke.
All we do is work. Or think of work. Or talk about work.
Work, work, work.
It wears on us after awhile. We get burned out. Some of us develop unhealthy addictions (like watching endless reruns of Friends). We even get sick.
Want to know what the best remedy I’ve found to battle burnout?
(One of my favorite artists has this tattooed on his arm.)
The reason we burn out isn’t because of this thing called ‘activity’.
Life is action. Movement.
Stillness is an illusion.
We see the proof in nature itself…
The glassy pond, under a microscope, is anything but still.
Even as we sleep, our hearts beat, our hair grows, and our brain zooms full-speed ahead.
Life never complains. It just goes and goes because that’s its nature.
The problem we have is alignment. Things go awry when we get out of alignment with what we’re doing. This is how things die.
Whether we’re just-not-that-into-it or we outright hate it, our intentions are somewhere else while our bodies, brains, and egos are trudging along with a slowly dying battery.
So we do things out of obligation. We feel coerced. Like we have no say in the matter.
We just go through the motions. There’s no soul behind it. No presence.
No wonder we’re burned out.
Want to turn the ship around?
Get into it.
Start doing as much as you can — even the smallest things like washing dishes, mowing the lawn, or doodling — with your full intent behind it. Like it’s the most mindful, enjoyable thing you’ve ever done.
Move through your day with purpose. With direction.
Soon, things will shift. You’ll start happening onto life so it can happen back. You’ll feel alive again (and will probably sleep better too).

Life is a ping-pong game. You’re serving. Until you move, it’s just gonna stand there and look at you.
You gonna bring the heat or not?
Heretic. Spiritual consigliere. Consciousness alignment specialist and sherpa. | About: http://bit.ly/1zgSK21 | Subscribe: http://bit.ly/1ULQlbK.
Short daily essays by Jonas Ellison about good, clean creative living and thoughts of a higher nature. | Subscribe via email: http://bit.ly/1ULQlbK.



Woah.
Cosmopolitan covers started out with women dressed conservatively. Then they started showing some skin. Then more skin. Finally, they started posing in sexy positions.
As women have earned more rights throughout the years, they’ve also earned the right to wear whatever they damn well please. Or maybe that just sells more magazines?


No bikini-clad teens here. It’s still pretty wholesome.
The Seventeen logo has stayed the same, but almost everything else about the design has changed. There was a time when the cover was delightfully simple. Then things just got more and more cluttered.
The magazine cover’s job is to sell the magazine — it has to stand out in a rack full of other magazines. So the design starts to get louder and louder.
When doing research for this article, I kept getting headaches whenever I looked at Seventeen covers for too long. Google image search “Seventeen Magazine” and you’ll see what I mean:
Ow. My eyes.


These are our new role models.
Ah, the Kardashians. Whether you love them, or love to hate them — there’s no disputing they’re wicked talented at monetizing their fame.
Vogue has had some gorgeous covers throughout the years. Like every other magazine, they’ve added more text on their covers to lure the readers in. But unlike Seventeen, they’ve done a good job of keeping the design classy and uncluttered.
For a more scientific look, check out Robots Reading Vogue, which compiled visual averages for all of the past covers of Vogue. (Thanks to Redditor othfilms for the find).


A walk down history, as seen through Time covers:
Time has done a great job branding its recognizable red border. The design has remained mostly consistent — except for a brief logo change in the 70's and 80's, which they quickly realized was a bad idea.
Time continues to feature America’s icons year after year — from presidents to pop stars. Who will be our icons in the next 100 years?

It surprised me that National Geographic’s covers were so text-heavy for most of its existence. This is a magazine that is perhaps best known for its beautiful full-bleed photography — yet they didn’t adopt this style until the 1960's. In contrast, magazines like Vogue and Cosmopolitan were were way ahead of the curve, featuring full-page illustrations as early as the 1900s.
Like Time, National Geographic has done an excellent job of branding its recognizable yellow border.


“Hey, we can sell more magazines with women in bikinis instead!”
— GQ’s marketing strategy
For a long time, every cover of GQ was pretty much the same. A white man in a suit. It’s a wonder it took them until 1990 to figure out that they might be able to sell more magazines by putting women on the cover instead.
GQ has gotten racy, sure — but also delightfully creative.
Damn, girl! This isn’t your average topless photoshoot.
GQ actually got in quite a bit of trouble for depicting Amy Schumer sexually with Star Wars characters. They didn’t get permission from Disney (who undoubtedly wouldn’t have granted it), and many Star Wars fans found it offensive. But Amy Schumer loved it, and said she would do it again.
Remarkably, The New Yorker hasn’t changed one bit.
The cover on the right is a special 90th anniversary issue, a clever recreation of the very first New Yorker cover on the left.
Compare the covers from decade to decade:
Pick out any cover at random, and it isn’t immediately obvious what time period it belongs to. With everything else that’s changed around us, The New Yorker has been remarkably consistent.
Their logo has endured 90 years. They continue to charm us with their hand-drawn illustrations. And unlike every other magazine, they haven’t been pressured into adding a bunch of text on the cover.
All magazines experiment with their design and learn what sells. And most other magazines — Cosmopolitan, Seventeen, Vogue, Time, GQ — have pretty much converged to the same design: a photo of a person, usually an attractive female, prominently featuring her face and body — with text headlines designed to get you to want to read what’s inside. This is the formula that sells their magazines.
Survival of the fittest, capitalism edition.
But not The New Yorker. It takes discipline to zig when everyone else is zagging.
You do you, New Yorker.


What 100 years of progress looks like:
What makes Caitlyn’s cover special is not just the subject matter, but the style as well. Let’s compare Caitlyn Jenner’s cover with every other cover in 2015:
The other covers are littered with mounds of text. Not this issue.
Call me Caitlyn. Just three words.
They didn’t need to sell the other stories. This issue was all about her. Vanity Fair nailed it.
You go, Caitlyn!


Together, these magazine covers reveal a peek into our history. Sure, we’ve gotten more sexualized. More superficial. We read less. We have shorter attention spans.
But we’ve also gotten more open-minded. At each step along the way, society has pushed the limits of what’s considered acceptable.
Not so long ago, black people couldn’t vote. Though they still face significant discrimination, they are also now idolized on magazine covers. As women have earned more rights over the years, they now take control of their sexuality. And Vanity Fair’s most iconic cover this year is a woman who used to identify as a man.
We’ve come a long way in 100 years.


Notice any trends we missed? Add your analysis in the comments.



Karen makes viral videos and explainer videos for startups. Follow her on Medium, Facebook or Instagram.
Jerry is product design consultant in San Francisco. Check out his portfolio.


Feel free to quote and embed the pictures on your publication. Please credit and link back: Karen X. Cheng and Jerry Gabra. Magazine covers are copyright by their respective publications. Comparison images created by Karen X. Cheng and Jerry Gabra. If you have questions, email karenxcheng (at) gmail (dot) com
Thanks to Orion Hombrebueno for research help. Thanks to Adam Lee, Oliver Emberton, Ketan Anjaria, Sam Brewczynski, Lynn Tao, Brooks Hassig and Rachman Blake for helpful feedback on drafts of this article.
I make viral videos and explainer videos for startups. http://karenx.com
By Hossein DerakhshanIllustrations by Tim McDonagh
Seven months ago, I sat down at the small table in the kitchen of my 1960s apartment, nestled on the top floor of a building in a vibrant central neighbourhood of Tehran, and I did something I had done thousands of times previously. I opened my laptop and posted to my new blog. This, though, was the first time in six years. And it nearly broke my heart.
A few weeks earlier, I’d been abruptly pardoned and freed from Evin prison in northern Tehran. I had been expecting to spend most of my life in those cells: In November 2008, I’d been sentenced to nearly 20 years in jail, mostly for things I’d written on my blog.
But the moment, when it came, was unexpected. I smoked a cigarette in the kitchen with one of my fellow inmates, and came back to the room I shared with a dozen other men. We were sharing a cup of tea when the voice of the floor announcer — another prisoner — filled all the rooms and corridors. In his flat voice, he announced in Persian: “Dear fellow inmates, the bird of luck has once again sat on one fellow inmate’s shoulders. Mr. Hossein Derakhshan, as of this moment, you are free.”
That evening was the first time that I went out of those doors as a free man. Everything felt new: The chill autumn breeze, the traffic noise from a nearby bridge, the smell, the colors of the city I had lived in for most of my life.
Around me, I noticed a very different Tehran from the one I’d been used to. An influx of new, shamelessly luxurious condos had replaced the charming little houses I was familiar with. New roads, new highways, hordes of invasive SUVs. Large billboards with advertisements for Swiss-made watches and Korean flat screen TVs. Women in colorful scarves and manteaus, men with dyed hair and beards, and hundreds of charming cafes with hip western music and female staff. They were the kinds of changes that creep up on people; the kind you only really notice once normal life gets taken away from you.
Two weeks later, I began writing again. Some friends agreed to let me start a blog as part of their arts magazine. I called it Ketabkhan — it means book-reader in Persian.
Six years was a long time to be in jail, but it’s an entire era online. Writing on the internet itself had not changed, but reading — or, at least, getting things read — had altered dramatically. I’d been told how essential social networks had become while I’d been gone, and so I knew one thing: If I wanted to lure people to see my writing, I had to use social media now.
So I tried to post a link to one of my stories on Facebook. Turns out Facebook didn’t care much. It ended up looking like a boring classified ad. No description. No image. Nothing. It got three likes. Three! That was it.
It became clear to me, right there, that things had changed. I was not equipped to play on this new turf — all my investment and effort had burned up. I was devastated.
Blogs were gold and bloggers were rock stars back in 2008 when I was arrested. At that point, and despite the fact the state was blocking access to my blog from inside Iran, I had an audience of around 20,000 people every day. Everybody I linked to would face a sudden and serious jump in traffic: I could empower or embarrass anyone I wanted.
People used to carefully read my posts and leave lots of relevant comments, and even many of those who strongly disagreed with me still came to read. Other blogs linked to mine to discuss what I was saying. I felt like a king.
The iPhone was a little over a year old by then, but smartphones were still mostly used to make phone calls and send short messages, handle emails, and surf the web. There were no real apps, certainly not how we think of them today. There was no Instagram, no SnapChat, no Viber, no WhatsApp.
Instead, there was the web, and on the web, there were blogs: the best place to find alternative thoughts, news and analysis. They were my life.
It had all started with 9/11. I was in Toronto, and my father had just arrived from Tehran for a visit. We were having breakfast when the second plane hit the World Trade Center. I was puzzled and confused and, looking for insights and explanations, I came across blogs. Once I read a few, I thought: This is it, I should start one, and encourage all Iranians to start blogging as well. So, using Notepad on Windows, I started experimenting. Soon I ended up writing on hoder.com, using Blogger’s publishing platform before Google bought it.
Then, on November 5, 2001, I published a step-to-step guide on how to start a blog. That sparked something that was later called a blogging revolution: Soon, hundreds and thousands of Iranians made it one of the top 5 nations by the number of blogs, and I was proud to have a role in this unprecedented democratization of writing.
Those days, I used to keep a list of all blogs in Persian and, for a while, I was the first person any new blogger in Iran would contact, so they could get on the list. That’s why they called me “the blogfather” in my mid-twenties — it was a silly nickname, but at least it hinted at how much I cared.
Every morning, from my small apartment in downtown Toronto, I opened my computer and took care of the new blogs, helping them gain exposure and audience. It was a diverse crowd — from exiled authors and journalists, female diarists, and technology experts, to local journalists, politicians, clerics, and war veterans — and I always encouraged even more. I invited more religious, and pro-Islamic Republic men and women, people who lived inside Iran, to join and start writing.
The breadth of what was available those days amazed us all. It was partly why I promoted blogging so seriously. I’d left Iran in late 2000 to experience living in the West, and was scared that I was missing all the rapidly emerging trends at home. But reading Iranian blogs in Toronto was the closest experience I could have to sitting in a shared taxi in Tehran and listening to collective conversations between the talkative driver and random passengers.
There’s a story in the Quran that I thought about a lot during my first eight months in solitary confinement. In it, a group of persecuted Christians find refuge in a cave. They, and a dog they have with them, fall into a deep sleep. They wake up under the impression that they’ve taken a nap: In fact, it’s 300 years later. One version of the story tells of how one of them goes out to buy food — and I can only imagine how hungry they must’ve been after 300 years — and discovers that his money is obsolete now, a museum item. That’s when he realizes how long they have actually been absent.
The hyperlink was my currency six years ago. Stemming from the idea of the hypertext, the hyperlink provided a diversity and decentralisation that the real world lacked. The hyperlink represented the open, interconnected spirit of the world wide web — a vision that started with its inventor, Tim Berners-Lee. The hyperlink was a way to abandon centralization — all the links, lines and hierarchies — and replace them with something more distributed, a system of nodes and networks.
Blogs gave form to that spirit of decentralization: They were windows into lives you’d rarely know much about; bridges that connected different lives to each other and thereby changed them. Blogs were cafes where people exchanged diverse ideas on any and every topic you could possibly be interested in. They were Tehran’s taxicabs writ large.
Since I got out of jail, though, I’ve realized how much the hyperlink has been devalued, almost made obsolete.
Nearly every social network now treats a link as just the same as it treats any other object — the same as a photo, or a piece of text — instead of seeing it as a way to make that text richer. You’re encouraged to post one single hyperlink and expose it to a quasi-democratic process of liking and plussing and hearting: Adding several links to a piece of text is usually not allowed. Hyperlinks are objectivized, isolated, stripped of their powers.
At the same time, these social networks tend to treat native text and pictures — things that are directly posted to them — with a lot more respect than those that reside on outside web pages. One photographer friend explained to me how the images he uploads directly to Facebook receive a large number of likes, which in turn means they appear more on other people’s news feeds. On the other hand, when he posts a link to the same picture somewhere outside Facebook — his now-dusty blog, for instance — the images are much less visible to Facebook itself, and therefore get far fewer likes. The cycle reinforces itself.
Some networks, like Twitter, treat hyperlinks a little better. Others, insecure social services, are far more paranoid. Instagram — owned by Facebook — doesn’t allow its audiences to leave whatsoever. You can put up a web address alongside your photos, but it won’t go anywhere. Lots of people start their daily online routine in these cul de sacs of social media, and their journeys end there. Many don’t even realize that they’re using the Internet’s infrastructure when they like an Instagram photograph or leave a comment on a friend’s Facebook video. It’s just an app.
But hyperlinks aren’t just the skeleton of the web: They are its eyes, a path to its soul. And a blind webpage, one without hyperlinks, can’t look or gaze at another webpage — and this has serious consequences for the dynamics of power on the web.
More or less, all theorists have thought of gaze in relation to power, and mostly in a negative sense: the gazer strips the gazed and turns her into a powerless object, devoid of intelligence or agency. But in the world of webpages, gaze functions differently: It is more empowering. When a powerful website — say Google or Facebook — gazes at, or links to, another webpage, it doesn’t just connect it — it brings it into existence; gives it life. Metaphorically, without this empowering gaze, your web page doesn’t breathe. No matter how many links you have placed in a webpage, unless somebody is looking at it, it is actually both dead and blind; and therefore incapable of transferring power to any outside web page.
On the other hand, the most powerful web pages are those that have many eyes upon them. Just like celebrities who draw a kind of power from the millions of human eyes gazing at them any given time, web pages can capture and distribute their power through hyperlinks.
But apps like Instagram are blind — or almost blind. Their gaze goes nowhere except inwards, reluctant to transfer any of their vast powers to others, leading them into quiet deaths. The consequence is that web pages outside social media are dying.
Even before I went to jail, though, the power of hyperlinks was being curbed. Its biggest enemy was a philosophy that combined two of the most dominant, and most overrated, values of our times: novelty and popularity, reflected by the real world dominance of young celebrities. That philosophy is the Stream.
The Stream now dominates the way people receive information on the web. Fewer users are directly checking dedicated webpages, instead getting fed by a never-ending flow of information that’s picked for them by complex –and secretive — algorithms.
The Stream means you don’t need to open so many websites any more. You don’t need numerous tabs. You don’t even need a web browser. You open Twitter or Facebook on your smartphone and dive deep in. The mountain has come to you. Algorithms have picked everything for you. According to what you or your friends have read or seen before, they predict what you might like to see. It feels great not to waste time in finding interesting things on so many websites.
But are we missing something here? What are we exchanging for efficiency?
In many apps, the votes we cast — the likes, the plusses, the stars, the hearts — are actually more related to cute avatars and celebrity status than to the substance of what’s posted. A most brilliant paragraph by some ordinary-looking person can be left outside the Stream, while the silly ramblings of a celebrity gain instant Internet presence.
And not only do the algorithms behind the Stream equate newness and popularity with importance, they also tend to show us more of what we’ve already liked. These services carefully scan our behaviour and delicately tailor our news feeds with posts, pictures and videos that they think we would most likely want to see.
Popularity is not wrong in and of itself, but it has its own perils. In a free-market economy, low-quality goods with the wrong prices are doomed to failure. Nobody gets upset when a quiet Brooklyn cafe with bad lattes and rude servers goes out of business. But opinions are not the same as material goods or services. They won’t disappear if they are unpopular or even bad. In fact, history has proven that most big ideas (and many bad ones) have been quite unpopular for a long time, and their marginal status has only strengthened them. Minority views are radicalized when they can’t be expressed and recognized.
Today the Stream is digital media’s dominant form of organizing information. It’s in every social network and mobile application. Since I gained my freedom, everywhere I turn I see the Stream. I guess it won’t be too long before we see news websites organize their entire content based on the same principles. The prominence of the Stream today doesn’t just make vast chunks of the Internet biased against quality — it also means a deep betrayal to the diversity that the world wide web had originally envisioned.
There’s no question to me that the diversity of themes and opinions is less online today than it was in the past. New, different, and challenging ideas get suppressed by today’s social networks because their ranking strategies prioritize the popular and habitual. (No wonder why Apple is hiring human editors for its news app.) But diversity is being reduced in other ways, and for other purposes.
Some of it is visual. Yes, it is true that all my posts on Twitter and Facebook look something similar to a personal blog: They are collected in reverse-chronological order, on a specific webpage, with direct web addresses to each post. But I have very little control over how it looks like; I can’t personalize it much. My page must follow a uniform look which the designers of the social network decide for me.
The centralization of information also worries me because it makes it easier for things to disappear. After my arrest, my hosting service closed my account, because I wasn’t able to pay its monthly fee. But at least I had a backup of all my posts in a database on my own web server. (Most blogging platforms used to enable you to transfer your posts and archives to your own web space, whereas now most platforms don’t let you so.) Even if I didn’t, the Internet archive might keep a copy. But what if my account on Facebook or Twitter is shut down for any reason? Those services themselves may not die any time soon, but it would be not too difficult to imagine a day many American services shut down accounts of anyone who is from Iran, as a result of the current regime of sanctions. If that happened, I might be able to download my posts in some of them, and let’s assume the backup can be easily imported into another platform. But what about the unique web address for my social network profile? Would I be able to claim it back later, after somebody else has possessed it? Domain names switch hands, too, but managing the process is easier and more clear— especially since there is a financial relationship between you and the seller which makes it less prone to sudden and untransparent decisions.
But the scariest outcome of the centralization of information in the age of social networks is something else: It is making us all much less powerful in relation to governments and corporations.
Surveillance is increasingly imposed on civilized lives, and it just gets worse as time goes by. The only way to stay outside of this vast apparatus of surveillance might be to go into a cave and sleep, even if you can’t make it 300 years.
Being watched is something we all eventually have to get used to and live with and, sadly, it has nothing to do with the country of our residence. Ironically enough, states that cooperate with Facebook and Twitter know much more about their citizens than those, like Iran, where the state has a tight grip on the Internet but does not have legal access to social media companies.
What is more frightening than being merely watched, though, is being controlled. When Facebook can know us better than our parents with only 150 likes, and better than our spouses with 300 likes, the world appears quite predictable, both for governments and for businesses. And predictability means control.
Middle-class Iranians, like most people in the world, are obsessed with new trends. Utility or quality of things usually comes second to their trendiness. In early 2000s writing blogs made you cool and trendy, then around 2008 Facebook came in and then Twitter. Since 2014 the hype is all about Instagram, and no one knows what is next. But the more I think about these changes, the more I realize that even all my concerns might have been misdirected. Perhaps I am worried about the wrong thing. Maybe it’s not the death of the hyperlink, or the centralization, exactly.
Maybe it’s that text itself is disappearing. After all, the first visitors to the web spent their time online reading web magazines. Then came blogs, then Facebook, then Twitter. Now it’s Facebook videos and Instagram and SnapChat that most people spend their time on. There’s less and less text to read on social networks, and more and more video to watch, more and more images to look at. Are we witnessing a decline of reading on the web in favor of watching and listening?
Is this trend driven by people’s changing cultural habits, or is it that people are following the new laws of social networking? I don’t know — that’s for researchers to find out — but it feels like it’s reviving old cultural wars. After all, the web started out by imitating books and for many years, it was heavily dominated by text, by hypertext. Search engines put huge value on these things, and entire companies — entire monopolies — were built off the back of them. But as the number of image scanners and digital photos and video cameras grows exponentially, this seems to be changing. Search tools are starting to add advanced image recognition algorithms; advertising money is flowing there.
But the Stream, mobile applications, and moving images: They all show a departure from a books-internet toward a television-internet. We seem to have gone from a non-linear mode of communication — nodes and networks and links — toward a linear one, with centralization and hierarchies.
The web was not envisioned as a form of television when it was invented. But, like it or not, it is rapidly resembling TV: linear, passive, programmed and inward-looking.
When I log on to Facebook, my personal television starts. All I need to do is to scroll: New profile pictures by friends, short bits of opinion on current affairs, links to new stories with short captions, advertising, and of course self-playing videos. I occasionally click on like or share button, read peoples’ comments or leave one, or open an article. But I remain inside Facebook, and it continues to broadcast what I might like. This is not the web I knew when I went to jail. This is not the future of the web. This future is television.
Sometimes I think maybe I’m becoming too strict as I age. Maybe this is all a natural evolution of a technology. But I can’t close my eyes to what’s happening: A loss of intellectual power and diversity, and on the great potentials it could have for our troubled time. In the past, the web was powerful and serious enough to land me in jail. Today it feels like little more than entertainment. So much that even Iran doesn’t take some — Instagram, for instance — serious enough to block.
I miss when people took time to be exposed to different opinions, and bothered to read more than a paragraph or 140 characters. I miss the days when I could write something on my own blog, publish on my own domain, without taking an equal time to promote it on numerous social networks; when nobody cared about likes and reshares.
That’s the web I remember before jail. That’s the web we have to save.
Log in to Medium and “recommend” this story.Follow Matter on Twitter | Like us on Facebook
Iranian-Canadian author, blogger. Freed from Evin prison after 6 yrs, in Nov 2014. Trying to get back to normal life. hoder@hoder.com
The story you’ve been missing.
Millions of narcissistic little jerks, reared by an uncommonly hysterical generation who instilled in their children the adamantine conviction that they are exceptional and necessarily worthy of respect, enrolled this week as freshman in universities across the United States.
There was a moment when this exercise might have tested these students, made better and new through confrontation with the uncomfortable and occasionally outrageous thought.
Now, instead, they will pass the next four years of pseudo-scholarship as they have the eighteen that preceded them: swaddled in institutionalized political correctness and protected always from the unconventional or provocative.
At two- and four-year colleges and universities all across the nation, administrators have adopted stringent “speech codes” that restrict speech and behavior otherwise explicitly protected under the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.
The result isn’t simply an emotionally delicate dolt, but a broader culture at jeopardy of losing the most foundational of human rights. Today’s over-sensitivity to offense means these students may be entirely desensitized to the loss of speech tomorrow, even in the face of gross government encroachment.
These speech codes stretch from the ludicrous, like Jacksonville State University’s* policy that students not offend anyone, to the plainly unlawful.
While regarded by administrators as a sort of legal prophylactic — if no one is offended, no one can bring suit against the university, the argument goes — these policies have actually invited serious and sustained litigation by students and civil liberties advocates.
According to a national policy review of more than 400 institutions of higher learning by the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE), a not-for-profit educational foundation, more than half of those schools with speech codes would not survive judicial review.
In the case of FIRE, some 36 schools have abandoned or severely restrained their speech codes after the group brought suit on behalf of aggrieved students and faculty whose right to lawful speech were infringed.
They’ve won, repeatedly, because the privilege not to be offended is no right at all. Moreover, intellectual discomfort is a necessary tool in emotional and scholastic development — and restrictive speech codes actively retard the process.
I should know: it wasn’t so long ago that I advanced from a parochial secondary school, wherein students were taught that man and dinosaur had once coexisted before a great flood washed the earth clean, to a monstrous state university where students learned genuine science.
This science was accepted, corroborated, quantifiable, and yet also deeply offensive to a child whose narrow appreciation for the world around him was fixed in young earth Creationism.
But my offense led to introspection, and in turn growth.
The new climate of institutionalized over-sensitivity that today plagues academia — the accepted belief that one has the right to never be offended — is so acute that dissent of any sort is not allowed. These policies require either conformity or silence, and they result in a dangerous chilling of the free exchange of ideas.
Millennials, the obnoxious selfie-snapping age cohort into which I was cursed to fall, are truly horrible enough without your help, academia. KTHXBAI.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely the author’s and do not necessarily reflect the views of his employer or clients.
*Ed. note: This article incorrectly attributed the speech code policy of Jacksonville State University to another university and has since been amended.
[Autonomous is a free digital magazine. But you can donate to the mission, and receive a variety of added benefits (including extra content), by visiting our Patreon page.]
A one-time flack for: @JonHuntsman, @HaleyBarbour, @RNC, @CRNC. Also, a yoga teacher.
A new look at American culture today, and where we’re headed — specifically, where culture intersects with politics, media, technology, morality and political correctness.

Countless books and articles have been written about Warren Buffett. Surprisingly few have been written about his business partner of over 40 years, Charlie Munger.
Munger has stayed out of the public eye, giving only a small number of public talks, and he’s rarely been covered in the media. At Berkshire Hathaway’s annual shareholder’s meetings, he lets Buffett answer the questions, often times commenting, “I have nothing to add.”
Recently, I decided to learn more about Munger’s 70-year career, and I’ve been blown away. His model for success, backed by research, is simple and game-changing. It flies in the face of conventional wisdom on career success.
Beyond The 10,000 Hour Rule
A great deal has been written about how deliberate practice over 10,000 hours within a specific area of expertise is the key to success.
While Munger has certainly worked long and hard to become one of the world’s top investors, the signature of his success is different. According to his own account, rather than focusing on investment theory like a laser, he has studied widely and deeply in many fields, including microeconomics, psychology, law, mathematics, biology, and engineering, and applied insights from them to investing.
Bill Gates has said of Munger, “He is truly the broadest thinker I have ever encountered. From business principles to economic principles to the design of student dormitories to the design of a catamaran he has no equal… Our longest correspondence was a detailed discussion on the mating habits of naked mole rats and what the human species might learn from them.” Munger has, in short, been the ultimate expert-generalist.
The Rise Of The Expert-Generalist
The rival argument to the 10,000 hour rule is the expert-generalist approach. Orit Gadiesh, chairman of Bain & Co, who coined the term, describes the expert-generalist as:
“Someone who has the ability and curiosity to master and collect expertise in many different disciplines, industries, skills, capabilities, countries, and topics., etc. He or she can then, without necessarily even realizing it, but often by design:
The concept is commonly represented by this model of the “T-shaped individual”:
While the 10,000 hour rule works well in areas with defined rules that don’t change such as sports, music, and games, the rules of business constantly and fundamentally change. Being an expert-generalist allows individuals to quickly adapt to change. Research shows that they:
Charlie Munger’s Approach To Being An Expert-Generalist
In connecting the dots across the disciplines, Munger has developed a set of what he calls models, which he uses to assess investment opportunities. In fact, he’s identified over 100 of these models that he uses frequently as of the publication of Poor Charlie’s Almanack. No doubt he continues to develop and perfect them.
What are these models exactly?
The best way to explain is to take the case of one he uses constantly, which he calls Two-Track analysis. It combines insights from psychology, neuroscience and economics about the nature of human behavior. This model instructs that when analyzing any situation in which decision-making by people is involved, which of course covers every business situation, he must consider two tracks:
Another example is classical conditioning developed by Ivan Pavlov in the early 20th century. Pavlov discovered that with the right conditioning, dogs would salivate not just when eating food, but also in anticipation of it when he walked into the laboratory. Munger applies the same logic to business. In his book, he gives the example of how Coca-Cola (one of Berkshire Hathaway’s largest holdings) conditions its customers with the right frequency and type of advertising while using their logo as the trigger.
The following is a summary of his rules on being an expert-generalist in his own words, excerpted and condensed from the various talks he’s given:
Rule #1: Learn Multiple Models
“The first rule is that you’ve got to have multiple models — because if you just have one or two that you’re using, the nature of human psychology is such that you’ll torture reality so that it fits your models.”
“It’s like the old saying, ‘To the man with only a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.’ But that’s a perfectly disastrous way to think and a perfectly disastrous way to operate in the world.”
Rule #2: Learn Multiple Models From Multiple Disciplines
“And the models have to come from multiple disciplines — because all the wisdom of the world is not to be found in one little academic department.”
Rule #3: Focus On Big Ideas From The Big Disciplines (20% Of Models Create 80% Of The Results)
“You may say, ‘My God, this is already getting way too tough.’ But, fortunately, it isn’t that tough — because 80 or 90 important models will carry about 90% of the freight in making you a worldly-wise person. And, of those, only a mere handful really carry very heavy freight.”
Rule #4: Use A Checklist To Ensure You’re Factoring in the Right Models
“Use a checklist to be sure you get all of the main models.”
“How can smart people be wrong? Well, the answer is that they don’t…take all the main models from psychology and use them as a checklist in reviewing outcomes in complex systems.”
Rule #5: Create Multiple Checklists And Use The Right One For The Situation
“You need a different checklist and different mental models for different companies. I can never make it easy by saying, ‘Here are three things.’ You have to drive it yourself to ingrain it in your head for the rest of your life.”
The Expert-Generalist Approach In Different Fields
Whether or not you decide to follow Munger’s particular approach, one clear takeaway is the value of gaining a wide breadth of knowledge while also drilling deeply into your area of specialty.
Many of the top scientists, business leaders, inventors and artists throughout time have also achieved their breakthrough successes by being an expert-generalist. Albert Einstein was trained in physics, but to formulate his law of general relativity, he taught himself an area of mathematics far removed from his expertise, Riemannian geometry. James Watson and Francis Crick combined discoveries in X-ray diffraction technology, chemistry, evolutionary theory and computation to solve the puzzle of the double helix. Steve Jobs, of course, drew on insights from his study of calligraphy and a rich understanding of design to create a new breed of computing devices.
Here is an infographic with 25 of the top expert-generalists throughout history:
Bain & Company chairman, Orit Gadiesh, attests to the value of being a voracious reader across many domains in her own career, saying:
What’s more, those who can bridge the gaps between silos are becoming more valuable than ever as the amount of knowledge in the world and its fragmentation continue to accelerate.
Being An Expert-Generalist Will Become More And More Valued
The discipline known as scientometrics is the science of science; it studies the evolution of scientific knowledge. Two of the key findings of this field are:
As disciplines emerge and mature, they develop their own cultures and languages. Each has its own terminology along with its own journals and annual conferences. This specialization has already become so extreme that those who are specialists in one subfield of a discipline often know little to nothing about the work going on in other subfields.
Consider the increasing specialization that has led to one important new area of science, epigenetics. Epigenetics is essentially the study of how environmental factors affect how our genes are expressed. When biology emerged as a field of its own out of medicine and natural history in the 19th century, it would have been possible for any biologist to gain a good grasp of the whole field. Today, many geneticists would tell you they don’t have any real understanding of the findings in epigenetics.
Given this state of affairs, many professionals have determined the best approached is to go into sub, sub, sub specialties, where they can hope to become one of the best if they follow the 10,000 rule. That can indeed be fruitful. But opportunities also abound for those who instead develop an aptitude for building connections across disciplines.
Expert-generalists face far less competition. The more fields you can pull from, the fewer people you’ll find taking the same approach. When it comes to drilling into one domain,the competition is generally fierce. Narrowly specializingalso leaves you vulnerable to the ever-more daunting forces of change. Orit Gadiesh offers insight in this regard:
“As technology, globalization, geopolitical challenges, and competition accelerate the disruption of business, people are confronted with challenges, customs, and issues they have never experienced before. I find that experts — someone with deep knowledge limited to just one area — often lack the flexibility needed to adapt to change and can be easily flustered or, worse, be completely derailed.”
Curiouser and Curiouser
The business world has placed great emphasis on focus, and rightly so. It is a vital ingredient of success. But more emphasis must now be placed on curiosity. Too often, we are so pressed by the day-to-day demands of work that we aren’t making time for exploration, diving into areas entirely outside our range of experience, letting our minds run, and finding inspiration from encountering new ideas with uncertain payoffs.
So, when you find yourself pushing back, the inner voice of work overload screaming that you don’t have time to be reading that book you just picked up about the physics of time travel or the novel someone recommended by the Nigerian Nobel Prize winner, remember this: Bill Gates recalls that the longest correspondence he’s had with Charlie Munger wasn’t about an investment, it was about the mating habits.
* * * * *
As a resource for this article, I put together a 27-page report you can download at no cost. It summarizes the psychological biases that Munger has identified throughout his 70-year career. I put it together because I didn’t see another summary anywhere else that was easy to comprehend or apply.
* * * * *
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Flossing. 30 minutes of daily physical activity. Morning meditation.
Yuck. Blah. Shit.
As someone who rarely succeeds in forming a new habit, I’m both proud and confounded to say I’ve somehow managed to start a daily ritual and keep up with it for the past eight months.
That ritual is called Morning Pages, and it has become part of my morning routine into the Escape School in London:
Wake up. Shower. Make a 3-egg and veg scramble. Walk to the Tube. Step onto the District line. Sit down. Pull out my notebook. Start writing.
My task is to write three pages, longhand. If I don’t hit three pages on my Tube ride (which I normally don’t), I duck into a coffeeshop to finish the rest.
So, what are these “Morning Pages” and why do I care so much about them?

Morning Pages is a practice introduced by Julia Cameron in The Artist’s Way, a book designed to help blocked creatives get unblocked.
Although it’s disguised as a book for “artists” — it’s really a guide for anyone who’s feeling stuck, unfulfilled in their work, or believe that their best music is left unsung (even if they don’t know what song they’re meant to be singing).
It’s a book to help people deal with that sonofabitch Steven Pressfield calls out by name in The War of Art: “The Resistance”
Cameron’s The Artist’s Way is meant for anyone who wants to tap back into their creative selves. Which frankly could be any of us. Because, if we’re honest, we’re all creative. Even if we’ve managed to forget that somewhere along the way.
There are two bedrock practices that Cameron swears by and implores her readers to undertake in The Artist’s Way. The first is Morning Pages. (The second is the Artist Date, which is an equally amazing practice, and which I’ll write about another time).
The practice of Morning Pages is simple: write three pages, long-hand, upon (or nearly upon) waking. No thinking, no analyzing, no stressing. Just write. Put pen to paper and squiggle it around until it forms words. What you write matters little. What matters is just that you write. Get whatever is at the forefront of your mind out of your mind and place it onto the page. Do not hold back. Do not judge. And do not stop until you’ve hit three pages.
This is not meant to be high art. The output of Morning Pages is not for public consumption. Cameron suggests they’re not even for private consumption:
I’ve come to love my morning pages. Which is unlike my love/hate relationship with writing publicly (my soul seems to require it, but damnit the process feels like wrestling with the Hulk). I love my morning pages because there is no heaviness in the outcome of the pages. It’s a form of unnecessary creation — just writing for the sake of writing. There may be heaviness in trying to form the habit of writing itself (more on this below), but once you crack that, it’s all lightness. It’s a lightness that lives in caring about the process itself, not in the outcome of that process.
Sometimes my morning pages are a streaming conscious-like flow of questions with half-assed answers. Sometimes they recount a day or a night or a moment. Other times they explore a philosophy, an idea, an obstacle or an opportunity. Sometimes they feel profound. Mostly they feel like bitching, and if read out loud, would resemble cracked-out crazy-person talk.
Which I suppose is the point. So much of our mind, if we’re paying attention, is cluttered and a’flutter with unhelpful, cracked-out thoughts. It’s this kind of muck that blocks us from doing the work we truly aspire to be doing; it’s the junk that hold us back from becoming the person we hope to become.
Whether it’s Morning Pages or some other ritual, it seems that people who create things that resonate or live storybook-like lives have some sort of daily practice. Entire books are even dedicated to the daily routines of accomplished people.
Whatever the routine, it seems that one purpose of these daily rituals is to get the noisy crazies out of the way to leave space for some magic to enter. If it chooses to enter. Or rather, put both the crazy and magic together on the same page so at least you can view them as peers and have a better shot at telling them apart.
Morning Pages is a sifter for the mind. Like meditation or running, it’s one more tool used to separate and disarm those unhelpful thoughts and help those introverted golden thoughts to shine through. Because there are gold in dem hills. Sometimes we just need a practice and a tool to help extract it.
Morning Pages have the potential to be cathartic, helpful and light. If there is a heaviness, it doesn’t exist in the ritual itself, but on the road toward the ritual.

I’m certainly no expert on building habits or rituals. (For that, I suggest checking out The Power of Habit by Charles Duhigg.) But if there’s anything I’ve learned from my newfound dedication to Morning Pages, it’s that there are ways to encourage a habit to stick.
Writing and becoming a better writer is something that drives me. It’s a strong craving I fell into when I started this blog. It’s something I can’t seem to shake.
For the habit you hope to create — what is your burning why behind it all? Why bother with this habit at all?
Sometimes the craving can come from a pain that’s too tough to bear.
Craving or pain, try to articulate and harness a strong emotion and align it with the why behind the habit. Find it and hold it tightly. Tie it to the new habit you hope to form. Use it as fuel. Give it a purpose. Your habit depends on it.
My Morning Pages has a friend — my already established daily routine.
When I sit down on the Tube, the act of pulling out my notebook has become a knee-jerk reaction. It happens almost without me thinking.
My Morning Pages also has a kryptonite — the absence of my routine.
When I do not take the Tube in the morning, when I am rushing to a meeting, when my morning routine is shaken up — my habit crumbles. My Morning Pages live and die by my ability to keep a routine.
Ideally, if the habit has sustained long enough, it will become its own ingrained habit like eating breakfast or brushing teeth. Which is a ritual’s goal: to become a routine itself so that another new ritual can piggyback on top of it.
What’s my reward for having done morning pages? For one, it’s the satisfaction of achieving a little sliver of clarity and comfort that the Pages tend to deliver. It doesn’t always come. But the times that it does makes it worth the daily habit.
There’s also the reward of having written and documented my thoughts. It’s being able to look at my stack of weathered notebooks and know that I’ve created something, just for the sake of it. For the sake of remembering that I am a human and therefore can create. And that when faced with the choice to either create or not create — I went forth and created.
And finally, as someone who sways toward introversion, I’ve noticed it takes dedication, care and patience to make myself heard. Even if it’s only to myself.
Like the simple truth Bertie learns leading up to his final battle with the mic in The King’s Speech, Morning Pages helps to remind me: “I have a voice.”
And if that isn’t reward enough, I’m not sure what is.
Thank you for reading.
If you enjoyed this and think it can help others, will you please “Recommend” or share with a friend?
And if you want to stay in touch with me (Matt), please join me…On my home turf: GiveLiveExploreIn London at The Escape SchoolOR…In the English countryside for a weekend of fun & adventure: Escape to the Woods
Former consultant turned deliberate journeyer @ GiveLiveExplore.com. Building a school for corp escapees @escthecity. Publishing @TalesofIceland. Speaking @TEDx
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

What is one thing most successful people have in common? They get up extra early and make the most of the morning. Here’s why:
Waking up early gives you time to think before the buzz of the day begins. To put it simply, the early morning is “you time” — a time to lay out your priorities for the day and make progress against them, before others are demanding your time and attention. It puts you firmly in control of each day.
Of course it is awfully hard to get out of bed, but that’s exactly why early risers have the competitive advantage over everyone else. They tackle the day while others hit the snooze button.
Here are just a few examples of ultra-successful early risers:
Did you notice another consistent trend among all of these ultra-successful people? Everyone’s morning ritual includes exercise as a key component.
In addition to the overall health and fitness benefits, studies have shown that moderate-intensity exercise for 20+ minutes produces a mental and emotional boost for the following 12 hours! This means that these business leaders are likely more clear-headed, effective, and productive at work as a direct result of their morning workout. The exercise time also allows them to think and problem-solve without interruption, so they hit the ground running once they get into the office. Morning exercise is an incredibly efficient use of time.
In addition to waking up extra early and exercising, here are a few more morning habits to get your day moving in the right direction:
All of this sets you up for success before your “work day” even begins, whatever form that may take for you. Being a morning person isn’t reserved for just C-level execs. Everyone will benefit from implementing these good habits.
Think it’s not possible for you because you need the extra sleep? The experts would say to get to bed earlier the night before to make the early wake-up call tolerable.
These tips and success stories help motivate me to get out of bed when all I want to do is sleep a bit more, and hopefully they also inspire you to make the morning your secret weapon!
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
If you enjoyed this post, please hit the “recommend” button below. Thanks!
For more stories like this one, “Follow” me to see my latest posts.
I write about good habits for productivity, health, happiness, & success. Marketing at Clif Bar, formerly Red Bull, Dodgers, Red Sox. Twitter @andrewmerle
Sharing our ideas and experiences
Everyday, I receive emails, LinkedIn smail (spam mail), texts and/or Facebook messages from people looking for resume help. I typically don’t respond to them — not because I don’t want to help but because they’re not listening to me when I tell them that any resume I create is NOT going to get them a job.
And, let me be straight, it’s not because I’m not good at fabricating bullet points for them.
The reason upgrading their resume isn’t going to work is because it’s not a resume that scores you a job. It’s relationships.
Have you ever heard the saying: “It’s who you know?”
It’s the absolute truth.
Today, I’m going to detail how you can land a job, and it does NOT involve me (or you) writing or editing your resume.
What it does involve is learning how to navigate your email inbox and woo your way into hiring managers’ (or their bosses’).

Duh! This is what you’re probably thinking.
It’s not what I’m thinking though since I receive emails from senders with addresses like “popprincess69@aol.com” and “iluvaaron@yahoo.com.”
Alright, alright, those are extreme examples, but they’re not far off, and they’re actually REAL humans — not spam bots.
Here’s my setup tips. Read them. I bet there’s something you forgot!
This is the prettiest email signature solution. Not only is it a better looking option but it is also easy to switch signatures between email accounts.
Yesware reports email opens, link clicks and file attachment downloads. This is valuable because it lets you know if you should follow up with someone or not and when, if you should. It also has a template feature many of you could use. Let’s say you’re applying to jobs, and you’re finding that you’re saying basically the same thing every time you email hiring managers. Write and save a template in Yesware then just personalize it from now on. That could knock off a lot of time for you.
Crystal isn’t kidding when it claims to be the biggest improvement to email since spell check. This email extension creates unique personality profiles for every person with an online presence, prepping you to speak or write in someone else’s natural, communication style. Crystal not only makes recommendations on which words you should use, but it even generates email templates based on the person you’re communicating with.
A LOT of emails are being tracked for clicks and opens. Use Ugly Email, a free gmail extension that tells you when an email is being tracked before you open it. This circumvents problems like opening an email and then not responding or opening the email 75 million times, which makes you look unproductive.
If you want to know other email tools I love check out this article.
According to Mindtools, the average office worker receives around 80 emails each day.
That makes it REALLY EASY for hiring managers to skip over your email, when it includes an error. Your email has an error if it’s:
The perfect email is short, easily scannable and includes a very clear call-to-action (CTA).
If you forget any of my tips, don’t forget this one!!! Make your email easily scannable. That means break up paragraphs into one sentence — two, if you must.
By this I mean utilize bold text, italics, and bullet points. This helps make your email easily scannable. Sometimes I even change important text’s color to red or highlight important sentences in bright yellow.
Send or schedule (if you use Yesware), your emails at optimal times. Think about it for a second. The best time to send a job request/application is most likely not at 1 a.m. on a Saturday night/morning. Monday probably isn’t good either because professionals will be busy playing catch up. I recommend sending between Tuesday and Thursday, in the morning or afternoon, say between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m.
Here are the elements of a damn good email.
Subject LineThe goal of your subject line is to drive the person you want to read your email to, well, open it to read the damn thing. I like to do this by complimenting the receiver in the subject line and letting them know that I want to provide value to them.
See how I did this in the fictitious example above to myself?
I told them I was a HUGE fan then preceded to tell them I wanted to HELP them do something.
Message
A mentor once told me to send 50 emails per week to get what I wanted, and our advisor, said he used to send as many as 300 per week to get generate new business.
Emails are how you get what you want from someone you don’t know, i.e. hiring managers.
Here’s what you got to do.
Yes, 25. That isn’t a lot so I don’t feel bad assigning you that many.
You may say: But, Lauren, there are not 25 jobs posted that I want.
And I’ll say: But, Jimmy, that does not matter at all.
According to ABC, 80 percent of jobs are landed through networking.
Emailing allows you to network with people across the nation, not just those professionals in your city; therefore, if you want a job in NY but live in Idaho, you can simply shoot off an email introducing yourself to someone you admire in New York.
People to send emails to:
This is pretty self-explanatory. I reread my emails nearly five to six times before I hit send… And I still catch errors sometimes. #Embarrassing
I HATE following up because the last thing I ever want to be to someone I want something from is annoying. But guess what?! I do. Because if you don’t ask for what you want then you’ll never get what you want, and sometimes you have to ask for it multiple times.
Like Mark Cuban says, “Every no gets me closer to a yes.”
Too many of you give up too easily.
What if a hiring manager only responded to those who had enough gumption to write a follow up to her lack of response the first time?
It could happen. I’m sure there’s a manager out there that does this although I’m also sure that it’s rare.
Neil Patel recommends the template I took a screenshot of and copied below.
Here’s a few templates from this post on The Muse.
Here’s an example from when I followed up after a hiring manager had me complete an assignment, but then didn’t follow up with me within a week, as he promised.
Basically, just remember keep follow up emails short and to the point and don’t forget to provide alternatives for the receiver. Alternatives could include something like them delegating what you want to someone else. This way you always get what you want — a response.
This is how you get a job, my friends, — by creating relationships with people.
I don’t receive job offers on the reg because I’ve sent this perfectly concocted resume to millions of hiring managers.
Job offers come to me because I’ve invested the time to build a strong, helpful network of influential individuals in my field.
founder, freelanship.com | growth, inbound.org | entrepreneur editor, sitepoint.com
Some really awesome, forward-thinking stuff.
by Tobias van Schneider — First appeared in my personal email list.

We’re always waiting for inspiration to find us. We’re waiting to get inspired to paint this perfect piece of art, to build the next big thing or to come up with this great advertising idea. We’re just sitting there waiting.
I still do it sometimes, like an idiot as if I don’t know better after all these years of chasing inspiration.
The problem with finding the perfect inspiration is that it’s just a romantic dream. Waiting for inspiration to show up and solve my problems is really nothing more than an empty promise.
Inspiration is a little bit like love. Seeking for the perfect love is like seeking for perfect inspiration. The harder you try, the longer it will take. It’s like magic, maybe even luck.
Now you might think that luck is not fair and rather unpredictable because some have more and some have less. For me luck is more like an attitude.
You might not be able to control your own luck or inspiration, but you can definitely enhance it’s chances by putting yourself in positions where luck & inspiration is more likely to happen.
When talking about inspiration, we first need to stop seeking inspiration. This might sound counterproductive at first and appears to involve risk because we often work under pressure, and we don’t have the time to stop thinking about something we actually need to think about.
Let’s just imagine inspiration exists as a random pattern in our life, as in the example I illustrated below. When forcing to find inspiration (see 1) my path is very linear/narrow and the chances are pretty low to get hit by inspiration — It will probably take forever.
If I don’t try to force inspiration to happen, my path appears to be more organic & random (see 2). I might go for a walk, I go to the movies, read a book or just start working. It doesn’t matter what I do, but what happens is that I put myself in situations where I’m more likely to get hit by those little spots of inspiration.
The key is to start doing something, RIGHT NOW! — It’s about to start working immediately even if you don’t feel inspired or know where you are going yet. Inspiration will only hit you once you are already in motion, not while standing still doing nothing.
And as Pablo Picasso already said:
This is an interesting concept because it completely goes against our logic that we first have to be inspired in order to work. But in reality that’s a lie — It’s exactly the other way around.
So the next time you say “I just don’t feel inspired right now” you know how to fix it. Start working right now and create your own inspiration.
Happy SundayTobias
___I’m Tobias, a Product Design Lead at Spotify NYC. Founder of Authentic Weather & Semplice, Advisor & UX at memomi — www.vanschneider.com
Director of Fun & Product Design Lead at Spotify NYC / Founder @semplicelabs — Board of Directors @AIGANYC + Advisor @memorymirror

We love data and we track everything here at .io. So couple of weeks ago we decided to track our team performance in terms of keyboard and mouse activity during the working day.
Our team is small — 1 designer, 2 developers and 2 content editors. And a couple of management guys of course. Our office is at the floor 23, so apart from staring in the window we work a lot here.
We installed simple Chrome plugin on every macbook and collected some statistics within a week with our event tracking system t.onthe.io.
Developers showed pretty unexpected figures. They have less keypresses than editors and managers — around 4k every day.


The most popular key is Command (on Macs) — 20% of all keys. The least popular is Spacebar. They use Tab key 5 times more frequently than all the rest team members together.
Their activity during the day (and night) is the less predictable and the activity graphs have lots of smooth areas and jumps. That’s because they walk around, think a lot and after a “eureka” moment sit down and write tons of code.
Managers are total winners in terms of amount of pressed keys — 3 times more than developers and even 1.5 times more than editors!


They press a key every 3 seconds in average. Emails take a lot.
Managers’ activity during the day is quite stable — they write and receive letters all day long. An average amount of keys pressed during the day is 23k and more. Spammers.
Editors are typing twice as much as developers and make less mistakes. Backspace usage is less than for all the rest team.


And the most popular key is… the space — 10% of all keypresses.
Editors’ activity is not stable but pretty predictable. Activity peaks fall on the beginning of the day — when all the articles are written. For the rest of the day they read them through, replace the words, read again and again, and then post.
Designer is pretty predictable — Command and Backspace are two buttons that he presses 20% of all. He does more mouse moves than developers and content editors together. His mouse travels 1 kilometer every day.

Office manager is the least active, making only 2k keypresses per day. That’s 5 times less than managers. 11% of all used keys is Space.
What’s curious — the least popular keys are Capslock and Right Mouse Button. Somewhere around 0.1% of all keypresses together. It’s time to make some changes to keyboards.
So we have managers who are keypress leaders. Designer who is a mouse movement champion. And editors who are doing 2 times less errors than the team average.
Now we are wondering what we should track next. Ideas?

Bruce Lee wanted one of his students to die.
Then he explained why.
And he’s right. I’ve seen this happen to people in my own life.
My best friend growing up died from it. He just gave up. He stopped.
Every day you can decide: 1% up. Or 1% down. You never notice it from day to day because it’s such a small difference.
Pick one area of your life you love. And improve it 1%.
It’s the most important thing you will do today.
Written by someone being trained by Bruce Lee:
“Bruce had me up to three miles a day, really at a good pace. We’d run the three miles in twenty-one or twenty-tow minutes. Just under eight minutes a mile [Note: when running on his own in 1968, Lee would get his time down to six-and-a-half minutes per mile].
So this morning he said to me “We’re going to go five.”
I said, “Bruce, I can’t go five. I’m a helluva lot older than you are, and I can’t do five.”
He said, “When we get to three, we’ll shift gears and it’s only two more and you’ll do it.”
I said “Okay, hell, I’ll go for it.”
So we get to three, we go into the fourth mile and I’m okay for three or four minutes, and then I really begin to give out.
I’m tired, my heart’s pounding, I can’t go any more and so I say to him, “Bruce if I run any more,” — and we’re still running — “if I run any more I’m liable to have a heart attack and die.”
He said, “Then die.” It made me so mad that I went the full five miles.
Afterward I went to the shower and then I wanted to talk to him about it.
I said, you know, “Why did you say that?”
He said, “Because you might as well be dead. Seriously, if you always put limits on what you can do, physical or anything else, it’ll spread over into the rest of your life. It’ll spread into your work, into your morality, into your entire being. There are no limits. There are plateaus, but you must not stay there, you must go beyond them. If it kills you, it kills you. A man must constantly exceed his level.”
More From James
Latest Podcast: Ep 125: Rich Roll & Julie Piatt: Quit the NonsenseIs it possible to transform your life on the eve of your 40th birthday, and experience meaning, vitality, and purpose like you’ve never before imagined?
Latest Ask Altucher: Ep 335: Q&A DayWhat’s an effective way to deal with complainers? James says help the complainer focus on other things, and if they’re a chronic complainer, then just remove yourself from the conversation. You’ll notice the complaints will slow down.
Recommended Article: The One Learning Technique That Scared The S*** Out of Bruce LeeBruce Lee said, “I don’t fear the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks. I fear the man who practiced one kick 10,000 times.
For some reason, I've turned myself inside out and all my guts have spilled onto my blog. One day I'll run out of stuff but not yet.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Leaders lately aren’t. Here are their four top mistakes.
Whether it’s the rise of the extreme right in Europe, Donald Trump’s ascent in the US, Canada’s stunning plunge into fringe politics, the world is awash in a new political phenomenon: a tsunami of vocal, angry extremism, where once placid waters calmly shimmered. Not extreme enough for you? In one of the world’s most advanced societies, unemployed kids, of which there are too many, are going to have to go…not to school, college, or even community service…but to boot camp.
WTF?
In this short essay, I want to offer a lens through which to see this phenomenon. A few years ago, there was a huge leadership deficit in the world. No one, it seemed, was steering the ship. And perhaps you thought things couldn’t get worse. But today things are different: there’s not a deficit of leadership anymore. There is a surplus of bad leadership. Too many angry, blind pilots pointing ships…straight into the icebergs. Leadership, it appears, has fallen into a deep abyss. From which it must climb out, if it is to regain its place in the world again.
And before I begin let me note. This isn’t an essay I particularly want to write. But the truth is that there are too few voices speaking too few simple truths about this unsettling — and profoundly self-destructive — phenomenon.
Let us, then, put our prejudices aside, and examine these new leaders. So we may see what they stand for — and whether it is worth believing in. What is striking — and immediately obvious — is that they share four positions in common; and that is what distinguishes them as a phenomenon, a class, a category, a larger movement.
Fatalism. Donald Trump wants to deport even the innocent children of undocumented immigrants — and build a Great Wall of America. David Cameron has literally shut down immigration to the UK. In Australia, refugees (who are innocent of any crime) are detained in offshore prisons where they are allegedly waterboarded. What the neo-demagogues share, above all, is an absurd answer to the great question of social inclusion: none. The evidence, of course, suggests squarely that immigration (among other kinds of inclusion) is a great benefit to society. But the demagogue exploits people’s selfishness in an age of stagnation — why should the immigrant have any, when I suddenly have barely enough?
The demagogue exploits people’s selfishness because his is a world of zero-sum thinking. If I have more, you must have less. Hence, it is “logical”, the demagogues claims to wish everyone ill. Immigrants, the disabled, the poor, the vulnerable — when all these people have more, they are taking bread from your mouth!! That is the central claim of the demagogue, and it is present everywhere in their economic policies — which are simply largely excuses to beggar everyone’s neighbor. Hence, the demagogue proposes no real social policies at all — only cutting society…all the way to zero. Hence, Cameron in the UK is eviscerating the NHS, BBC, and more; Canada and Australia, too, are beginning to dismantle their great public institutions. After all, that is the logical endpoint of beggar-thy-neighbor: there are no public goods worth investing in at all.
But that is not what prosperity is at all: any reasoned understanding of it begins with the notion that if I am to have less for you to have more, then no one is better off in the first place; we have merely changed places. True prosperity is beyond the demagogue’s logic entirely: it is a state where both you and I benefit from one another’s existence, despite what it costs us. That may seem a subtle point. But it is the starting point for the great enterprise known as the social contract — for without a shared prosperity, there is no reason for citizens to bother with one another at all. To simplify: the demagogue tells us that social contracts are impediments in the way of prosperity — not its foundations and arches. And so he reduces the great accomplishments of history to rubble.
There’s a simpler way to put the zero-sum assumption of the demagogue: fatalism. It is a belief that the immigrant, the weak, the vulnerable — these cannot benefit the strong, the sure, those who “belong”; they simply do not have the potential to. It is a fatalistic disbelief in human potential itself. And you can’t be much of a leader if you don’t believe in human potential.
Scapegoating. You will note that the true cause of economic stagnation is not addressed by the demagogue at all. It wasn’t immigrants, the poor, or the vulnerable that caused a financial crisis. So who was it? Duh. It was bankers — who malinvested in toxic assets, and then flogged them, for a double profit, right back to the state, which promptly then had a crisis because it’s balance sheet suddenly went to hell. It’s so painfully stupid I have to say it again: the economy melted down because of badly run banks, not (of all people) immigrants — and frankly, if you believe anything but, you are a rube, a sucker, a mark. You think your plumber somehow flushed ten trillion dollars down the toilet?
Let me put it plainly. To persecute immigrants and the poor for a weak economy instead of bankers is like blaming your pet kitten for terrorism. That is precisely what neo-demagogues are doing when they blame immigrants (and other vulnerable groups) for weak economies: scapegoating them.
Nowhere — in not a single advanced economy — do we see demagogues calling for bankers to be prosecuted and brought to justice for ruining the economy — not a single modern day demagogue has called for it. But they are relentless, and extreme, in their persecution of people that didn’t ruin it. The interesting question is: why? It isn’t just that banks are the demagogue’s friend. Rather, it is because demagogues do not understand how the economy works at all. They equate money with wealth — and so they do not understand that wealth is what prosperity is actually composed of, and money is merely paper that helps us distribute it; therefore, money must be hoarded, concentrated, and denied to those who haven’t “earned” it — instead of distributed widely, precisely so society can continue to prosper. Real leaders don’t scapegoat: they do precisely the opposite — they celebrate (and reward) those who have truly bettered us.
Timidity. You may think that demogagues, angry and loud as they are, are reckless firebrands. But the truth is that they are timid, cowering, panicked things. Let me explain.
Because the demagogue believes that money is wealth, the next plank in his plan for society is to “eliminate the deficit”. But this is a negative real interest rate world. Little could be more mind-bendingly absurd. It’s so illogical I struggle to find a metaphor. Restoring economic health by cutting the deficit in a negative interest rate world is like trying not to have sex in order to reproduce.
Think about it. There are mountains of capital moving around the globe in desperate search of investment opportunities (hence, the super rich stashing money in London and NYC real estate). There has rarely been a better time for governments to invest, and invest with a vengeance, in modern history. Societies should be building gleaming new schools, hospitals, roads, bridges…giving free money to students…raising the salaries of teachers and other public employees…everything and anything under the sun that society so visibly needs.
Let me make the logic crystal clear. If I offered to lend you a million dollars, at a negative interest rate of ten percent a year, for 100 years, would you accept? You’d be one of history’s great fools not to. You’d have to pay me back…zero; in fact, I’d owe you money. You could simply invest a market index, or even just hold cash, and you’d make free money. Your timidity would lead you to miss a life-changing opportunity.
But that is exactly what demagogues don’t want governments to do. They believe, timidly — and have convinced foolish people — that nations are “going broke”; that they cannot “afford to” invest in public goods, like schools, hospitals, roads, or clean air and water. Why? Not just because they are economic illiterates — but because they are devoted to their own ignorance. They fetishize the deficit like a wrathful god to be ritualistically appeased with human sacrifice. But real leaders don’t timidly, fearfully obey empty commandments—they are bold and wise enough to revolt. Especially against hollow gods, whether made of stone or of numbers, in the promise of each life’s possibility to grow and mature.
Dehumanization. It’s possible, of course, for demagoguery to come from either left or right. But what is characteristic of neo-demagogues today is that they are products of the extreme right. Why? Because, in the wake of financial crisis, in the teeth of economic stagnation, people are overwhelmed by anxieties and fears that have left them angry, worried, and confused. How will my children prosper? How will I retire? Who will take care of me in my old age? How will we afford to maintain the lifestyle to which we are accustomed?
The demagogue’s choice is to provide people answers which exploit their prejudices and biases, and prey on their ignorance and foolishness. Demagogues, in short, bring out the worst in people. And that is why they are very effective politicians. They may arouse the passions of people. But they do so in the same that a drug dealer might. They awaken people’s appetites for self-destruction and hate — not for creation, nobility, and greatness.
Let me explain.
The demagogue justifies his claims with a very simple appeal. If we’d exclude the weak, pay off the bills, and punish the undeserving, the demagogue claims, everyone else could have a life worth living. And that life is precisely the same for all the neo-demagogues of meta-modernity. It is a dream of hyperrational individualistic materialism: a McMansion, a fleet of cars, and gadgets for every family. So what’s wrong with that? Nothing.
But there’s not much right with it, either. The simple truth is that is the least a great society should aspire to. More than mere material prosperity, a society that wishes to be truly great must encourage it’s people to be great. Great thinkers, artists, healers, teachers, leaders, creators, dreamers, builders. Not just grinning brain-dead zombie-consumers sucking down the dregs of post-capitalist prosperity left at the bottom of the cup through a broken straw of corrupt institutions and wrecked social contracts. But that is precisely what the neo-demagogues of meta-modernity want us to be.
That is their true gleaming flaw. Not merely that they call forth the worst in us. But that they do not do justice to the best in us. For the best that they want for us is merely the worst in us…not to be great, noble, wondrous people, who do amazing and remarkable things…but merely to be monsters with insatiable appetites. Not beings, who, though born in sin, defiantly ever hold the possibility of grace in our broken hearts.
That is the tragedy of the demagogues. They ask us to hate. But they do not know that we must, if we are to live fully, love. Not merely in the empty technological consumerist sense — a tap, a swipe, a date, and a hangover. But in the true and timeless sense. We must brim over with mercy if we are to know grace. We must overflow with humility if we are to know meaning. We must burst open our selves if we are to know their place in creation. It is not enough for us to be consumers, bullies, predators, smiling monsters denouncing our neighbors, if we are to be the people we were meant to be. We must be dreamers, rebels, renegades, heretics, outlaws. Everything, in short, that the demagogues do not want us to be.
That, of course, is our great challenge. To be the very leaders that a broken, hunted, anxious world is so desperately missing.

UmairNYCAugust 2015

Photo credit.
author, economist, slayer of zombies.
Essays  by Umair Haque

UPDATE: Thanks to a good friend of mine, at the end of this text is the English version.Thank you very much Giovana Angelo.
Todos têm um limite, mesmo os jornalistas e fotojornalistas, e embora seja difícil de chegar a ele, hoje eu cheguei.
E passei dele.
Começo esse texto com dois pedidos de desculpas:
1º — Sei que várias vezes critiquei a postura de alguns fotógrafos que se deixavam levar pelo calor da situação quando deveriam apenas observar e registrar, mas hoje fui eu que me vi nessa situação;
2º — Não irei usar uma linguagem jornalística neste texto. Já que cruzei a fronteira uma vez, vou aproveitar a viagem, então se preparem, não vou segurar a língua.
Pois bem, já sabia que hoje seria um espetáculo bizarro, cheio de coisas que, como diria um grande amigo meu (abraço para você meu caro amigo Américo), fariam um macaco vomitar.
Normalmente eu parto da política de apenas registar fotograficamente os eventos sem interferência nenhuma, sem questionar ou discutir além do necessário para o trabalho, mas acho que todo mundo tem um limite, além do que, já deixei para trás faz tempo a ilusão de que existe o jornalismo imparcial. Aliás, essa foi uma descoberta bacana, porque pude entender que posso me posicionar e ainda assim fazer um trabalho jornalístico decente.
Já no final da tarde, um grupo de membros dos Jornalistas Livres resolveu fazer uma intervenção onde uma bandeira do Brasil era estendida e uma pessoa deitava sobre ela, toda coberta de sangue (ketchup, só para constar) enquanto sua mãe pranteava sua morte. Depois disso, um cartaz era colocado com os dizeres Falta vermelho nessa bandeira. Claro que qualquer pessoa com o mínimo de bom senso teria notado que isso era uma menção à chacina ocorrida no final de semana em Barueri e Osasco, mas como o “sangue” era vermelho, isso foi o suficiente para decretar que aquelas pessoas eram petistas. Sem julgamento, sem chance de defesa, apenas com um júri/juiz/executor, ou melhor dizendo, uma turba de acéfalos que não faziam ideia do que estavam falando.
É claro que não sou ingênuo de achar que essa ação por mais que tenha um fundo crítico e politizado, teve sua parte de provocação, mas até então isso não deveria ser problema já que todos batiam no peito ao dizer que era um protesto pacífico e democrático (precisam urgentemente rever o conceito de democrático) além de sequer terem mencionado “aqueles que não devem ser nominados” (só para não ficar dúvida, estou falando de Dilma, Lula e o PT).
Durante a performance, quando a atriz estava deitada, duas pessoas que são dessa gente de bem resolveram participar da intervenção (#sqn) da forma que esse povo entende por democracia: Uma senhora, na casa dos seus 40 anos, muito bem vestida resolveu pintar a testa da atriz com as tintas que ela carregava. Um outro rapaz, mais eufórico, pegou uma caneca de plástico, também cheia de tinta, e atirou contra ela.
A atriz, como uma boa morta, não se mexia, não reclamava, apenas ficava ali inerte, cumprindo o seu papel e jogando na cara deles uma realidade que praticamente todos ali faziam questão de ignorar.
Quando a atriz se levantou já no encerramento da intervenção, ela ficou ali parada, em pé, com o olhar perdido e ignorando os gritos que a chamavam de bandida, vagabunda, ladrão (sim, eles tem problemas em concordar os gêneros eu acho) e outras coisas.
Não bastasse, mais um manifestante resolveu colar na testa dela um adesivo, numa pífia tentativa de chamar a atenção ou, a probabilidade que mais me assusta, de realmente achar que estava fazendo algo bom, algo correto.
Depois disso, me dirigi ao cidadão que jogou a tinta na atriz e à mulher que havia pintado o rosto dela. Ambos estavam próximos (talvez a gente realmente atraia aquilo que emanamos…) e pedi se podia gravar uma declaração deles sobre o que havia acontecido ali e também sobre o que fizeram.
O cara (vou chamá-lo assim já que nem o nome quis dizer) diz “Não cara, melhor não” e a mulher diz “não quero, não autorizo”. Nessa hora perguntei porque eles tiveram peito de jogar a tinta, mas não tinham a mesma coragem para falar e serem filmados e a resposta foi o primeiro passo além do meu limite.
O cara me chama de canto e fala baixo em meu ouvido que não queria falar porque ele já havia sido filiado a partidos políticos e isso poderia pegar mal para ele. Bizarro não? Jogar tinta em uma pessoa não pega mal, mas dar uma entrevista falando o porque de ter feito isso pega muito mal.
A dama da paulista disse que fez isso porque era uma provocação dos petistas, quando retruquei dizendo que aquele ato não tinha relação com o PT e era uma crítica aos assassinatos do final de semana. Com toda a educação do mundo (e arrogância de um burguês no sentido literal da palavra) ela me disse que “Ali não era lugar pra fazer isso. Se quisessem protestar que fossem fazer isso lá em Osasco e não ali na Paulista”. Com um profundo pesar (pelo tipo de ser humano que ela era) perguntei se a violência na periferia não era uma pauta que merecia ser levada às ruas, mas ela disse que “não, coisa da periferia tem que ser resolvida na periferia” e após proferir essa frase abundante em bondade, democracia e justiça (vale lembrar que virava e mexia se ouvia nos trio elétricos alguém dizendo que eles não estavam lá por se preocuparem com seus próprios umbigos, mas sim por querer o melhor para o país todo. Aham… senta lá Cláudia!) ela encerrou o assunto dizendo “Você não concorda comigo e eu não concordo com você, então não tem porque conversarmos.”. Não sei se só para mim isso soou como você está comigo ou está contra mim.
Saí dali e fui até a esquina onde os atores haviam ido para retomar a intervenção, próximo de um destacamento de policiais.
Novamente foram seguidos por várias pessoas que continuavam com seus gritos de ordem (aqueles que falei antes lembram? Petistas, vagabundos, ladrões, miseráveis e outros. Lembraram?). Nesse momento eu já estava bem frustrado e de saco cheio, mas ainda mantinha a determinação de tentar apenas observar até que novamente escuto um senhor com os seus 60 e tantos anos chamar eles de petistas. Parei e perguntei (acreditem, de forma educada. Pasmem!!!!) se ele sabia que aquilo era uma crítica a chacina que havia acontecido em Osasco e o que ele achava disso.
“Foi muito bom que tenham feito isso. Tinha que matar mesmo.”.
Não dava mais, aí fodeu tudo e a paciência e tolerância foram para o saco. Um outro senhor, da mesma faixa etária, veio falar que essa chacina tinha sido de traficante matando traficante e eu disse que não, com certeza aquilo era trabalho de policiais.
Pronto, acabou a educação. Entre perguntas se eu sabia o que era um inquérito e que os jornais só mentiam, a coisa foi chegando ao ponto em que eu virei “um bosta” e logo depois eu já era a escória e sei lá mais o que. Nessa hora confesso que entrei na pilha dele e fiquei de saco cheio e comecei a discutir.
Errei? Talvez, mas não tenho sangue de barata e até que demorou para ele ferver. Era insano discutir com ele, argumentos desconexos, um ódio cego e sem sentido. Quando ele me xingou a primeira vez eu perguntei se eu o havia ofendido ou se ele me conhecia para afirmar esse tipo de coisa. Disse que eu era um petista e que eu estava ali fotografando de graça. Então eu disse que não, que eu estava fazendo fotos para uma agência de fotografia e ele me pergunta se eu não quero então fotografar de graça um aniversário ou casamento para ele.
Alguém entendeu?
Nessa hora eu já comecei a tirar sarro e dizer que ele devia ir jogar bingo ou sentar na praça para jogar milho para os pombos ao invés de ir lá ficar falando besteira, mas como não sou ruim, também disse para ele maneirar porque naquela idade ele já devia tomar cuidado com a pressão e não ficar tão exaltado (ok, fui irônico sim caso alguém não tenha notado).
Seria engraçado se não fosse trágico você ouvir um senhor de idade (mas lembrem-se, os canalhas também envelhecem) dizer:
— Esse é um protesto pacífico e respeitoso. Seu bosta!!!!!
Se isso é um protesto pacífico e respeitoso, gostaria de saber qual a visão dele de um protesto agressivo e desrespeitoso. Não, pensando bem não quero não.
A essa altura, outros amigos fotógrafos intervieram para tentar acalmar os ânimos e também começaram a ser agredidos verbalmente pelas pessoas que se amontoavam ali.
Os policiais próximos do tumulto fizeram o que passaram o dia todo fazendo: Ficaram de paisagem.
Os gritos cessaram e segundo alguns que estavam ali e afirmaram categoricamente, eu era um petista. Engraçado pensar que eu nem sabia que o era, até porque eu justifiquei meu voto nas últimas eleições (mas votaria na Dilma se tivesse votado).
Hoje senti na pele a tal da polarização que tanto se fala. Ou você é uma coisa ou você é outra e ponto final. Alguns amigos disseram que eu havia vacilado em entrar na pilha do velho (velho no sentido de retrógrado e anacrônico e também da idade), mas chega uma hora que não dá para ouvir tanta besteira e se calar.
Sempre pensei que o trabalho de um fotojornalista é o de mostrar a realidade e provocar mudanças, mas além de disso acho que o principal é não perder a capacidade de se indignar com as injustiças.
Posso ter errado do ponto de vista jornalístico, profissional, porém não me arrependo e faria tudo de novo se fosse necessário.
O Brasil está ferrado como está? Sim, sem dúvida alguma, mas se essas pessoas são a única solução, então infelizmente o país tem um triste futuro pela frente.
E quando eu estava indo embora, cutucaram meu ombro. Uma moça que estava ali e que eu nunca tinha visto. Ela estava ali para encontrar com o namorado e não me conhecia, mas quando me virei para ela, me deu um sorriso e disse:
— Parabéns pela coragem em enfrentar eles pelo que é certo.
Errei? Talvez tenha errado, mas quer saber? Foda-se, não tem preço a consciência tranquila por ter feito o que é certo.
Ou pelo menos o que acredito ser.


The day I was called ‘petista’
Everybody has limits, even the jornalists and photographers, and even though it is hard to reach it, today I did.
And crossed its line.
I will start this text with two apologies:
1st — I know that several times I have criticized the attitudes of some photographers that let themselves be carried away by the heat of the moment when they should only observe and register, but today I was the one who saw myself in that situation;
2nd — I will not use journalistic language in this text. Since I have already crossed the boundries once, I will seize the opportunity, so prepare yourselves, I will not hold my tongue.
Well, I knew today would be a bizarre episode, full of things that as friend of mine would say (nice regards to you my dear friend Americo), would make a monkey throw up.
Usually I adopt a political attitude to only register photographically the events without any interference, no questioning nor interfering beyond necessary for the job, but I think everybody has limits, besides I have already left behind a long time ago the illusion that impartial journalism exist. By the way, this was a nice discovery, because I could understand that I can take a side and still do a good jornalistic job.
(Photo)“The frying pan was made in France and the wooden spoon in Italy, but I bought them with my money. “ said the lady’s companion.
By the afternoon, a Free Journalist ‘s group member decided to perform where a Brazilian flag was extended and a person laid over it, all covered up of blood (ketchup by the way) while her mother mourned her death. After that, a post was hang with the saying ‘Red is missing in this flag’. This is for sure that anyone with a minimum of common sense would have noticed that it was referring to the slaughter happened at the weekend in Barueri and Osasco, but since the ‘blood ‘ was red, that was enough to decree that they were ‘petitas’. With no judgment, no chance of defending, just a jury/judge/ executor, or better saying, a bunch of dumb people that had no idea of what were saying.
(Photo )Performance done by journalists members criticizing the violence in the slums and the murders happened this weekend in Barueri and Osasco.
Of course I am not naive to think that this performance regardless it has a critic and ‘policized’ background, had some teasing, but so far it should not be a problem since everyone said it was a pacific and democratic protest (need urgently to review the concept of democratic) besides they did not mention “the ones that should not be named “ (just so there are no doubts, I am talking about Dilma, Lula, and PT)
During the performance, while the actress was laid down, two people of those good souls decided to join it in a way of their understanding of democracy: a lady in her 40s, very well dressed decided to paint the actress’s forehead with the paints she was carrying. Another guy, more euphoric, got a plastic cup, also full of paint, and threw at her.
The actress, as good dead, did not move, did not complain, just kept herself motionless, doing her job and showing them the reality that most people would rather ignore.
(Photo)Protesters paint and throw paint at the actress during the performance criticizing the violence against the black young people in the slums.
When the actress stood up at the end of the performance, she remained still, just starting and ignoring the screams that called her bandit, hooker, thief and other names.
As it was not enough, another protester decided to put a sticker on her forehead, trying poorly to draw attention or possibly what scares me most, of thinking that he was doing something good, something right.
(Photo)A protestor puts a sticker on the actress forehead during the act criticizing the violence in the slums
After that, I moved towards the gentleman who threw the paint on the actress and also the lady who painted her face and asked if I could record their statement about what happened and also about what they did.
The dude (this is how I will call him since he did not want to tell me his name ) said “no dude, better not “ and the lady said “I don’t want, I don’t authorize it.” Then I asked them why they had the courage to throw the paint, but did not have the same courage to speak and to be recorded, and the answer was the first drop out of my limit control.
The dude calls me quietly and whispers in my ears that he did not want to speak because he had already been part of political parts and this would be frown upon. Weird, isn’t? Throwing paint at someone isn’t frown upon, but giving an interview telling what they had done that is really frown upon.
The lady said she did it because it was a ‘petista’ teasing, then I said that the act did not have to do with PT and that was a critism of the murders that happened in the weekend.
Very politely (and arrogantly) she told me it was not the right place for it. If they wanted to protest they should go to Osasco instead of in Paulista. I felt pity (about the human being she is) and I asked if the violence in the slums should not be taken to the streets, but she said “no, slums issues should be solved in the slums” and after saying this phrase full of kindness, democracy and justice (it is good to remember that from on an on we could hear in the parades someone saying that they were not there because they carried about themselves, but because they want a better country for everyone) she ceased talking by saying “you don’t agree with me, and I don’t with you, so there’s no reason to talk.” I am not sure, but for me it sounded like ‘you are with me or against me.’
(Photo)Selfies and photos with the policemen of ‘tropa de choque’ that posed next to the blinders tank recently bought were common during the whole day.
I left the place and went to the corner where the actors had gone to keep on the intervention, nearby some policemen.
Once again they were followed by several people that kept with their demand screams (the names I told earlier, remember? ‘Petistas’, hooker, thief, miserable, and other names. Remember?) By this time I was frustrated and sick and tired of it, but still kept being determined to only observe until the moment I heard a gentleman who is his 60s calling them ‘petitas’. I stopped and asked (believe me, I was polite) if he knew it was critic to the slaughter that happened in Osasco and what he thought about it.
“It’s very good they did it. They had to kill indeed. “
That was it, then all my patience and tolerance were gone. Another man of the same age came to say that the slaughter was drug dealer killing drug dealer, and I said no, that was the police job for certain.
Done, the politeness was over. Between questions if I knew what was an enquiry and that the newspapers lied, it came to a point in which I was a “fool” and soon I was a trash and God knows what else. Then I confess that I was sick and tired of this and started to argue.
Was I wrong? Maybe, but I am not meek and mild and it took a while to get mad. It was insane arguing with him, disconnect arguments, a blind anger with no sense. When he scold me for the first time I asked if had ofended him or if he knew me to say that kind of thing. He said I was ‘petista’ and that I was photographing for free. I told him I was not, I was taking photos for an agency and then he asks me if want to photograph a birthday or a weeding for free.
Someone could understand it?
Then I started to joke and said he should play bingo or feed the pigeons instead of being there talking nonsense, but since I am not a bad person I also told him he should control himself especially in his age so he doesn’t suffer a heat attack (I was being ironic in case someone did not notice it.)
It would be funny if it was not tragic hearing an old man (but remember the mean people also get old) said:
This is a pacific and respectful protest. You bullshit!
If this is a respectful and pacific protest I would like to know in his point of view what is an agressive and disrespectful one. No, actually I don’t.
(Photo)Protester dressed up as ‘capitain america’ an another asking the American president, Barack Obama, for help.
By this moment some photographers coleagues came by to calm things down and also were scolded by the people around it.
The policemen nearby spend the day doing the same thing: just standing.
The screaming ceased, and according to some people who were there said I was ‘petista’. Funny thinking that I did not know what was it, even though I justified my vote in the last elections (but I would have voted in Dilma if had voted).
Today I felt the polarization so much talked about. You are either one thing or the other, and that is it. Some friends told me I made a mistake of arguing with the old guy. But sometimes it is hard to hear so many foolish things and hold our tongue.
I always thought that a photo jornalistic job is to show the reality and make changes, but besides it I think the main thing is not to loose the capacity of getting angry with the injustice.
I may have been wrong in the professional and journalistic point of view, but I don’t regret it, and would do everything again if needed.
Is Brazil so bad as it is? Yes, no doubts of that, but if those people are the only solution, then unfortunately the country has a sad future ahead.
And when I was leaving, I was poked on the shoulder by a lady who was there and who I have never seen before.She was there to meet with her boyfriend and she did not know me neither, but when I turned to her, she smiled and said:
- Congratulations for your courage facing them for what is right.
Did I made a mistake? Maybe I did, but you know what? I don’t care, there is no price for a peaceful mind for doing the right thing.
Or at least for what I believe it is.
I am a Brazilian photojournalist currently living in Santos, on the southern coast of São Paulo, Brazil.

Dear Periscope community and world,
We’d like to share an exciting update on Periscope’s growth, and provide some insight on how we measure our progress.
On August 2nd, we surpassed 10 million Periscope accounts. We launched Periscope just four months ago, on March 26, 2015. We would like to thank every single one of you for taking the time to use something that we’ve worked so hard to create. It means everything to us.
We’re even more stunned by the burgeoning usage of Periscope. Here’s the graph of our Time Watched since launching. We define Time Watched as the aggregate amount of time that people spend watching live broadcasts on iOS & Android. As of last week, we’re seeing over 40 years of video watched per day.
Time Watched is the metric we care about most, and what we’ll keep you updated on periodically. Here’s why Time Watched matters to us:
Optimizing for DAU/MAU doesn’t properly motivate our team to create a product that people love. Here’s why: if we were motivated to grow DAU, we’d be incentivized to invest in a host of conventional growth hacks, viral mechanics, and marketing to drive up downloads. This direction doesn’t necessarily lead to a better product, or lead to success for Periscopers. We hold ourselves accountable to Time Watched as an organizational measure because it reflects the kernel of our product, and our core values.
We hope this was helpful information to share. Most importantly, we want Periscopers to know and feel that they’re contributing to a growing ecosystem. And we want people to know that the Periscope team is measuring itself in a way that aligns with the value that the community gets from Periscope. We will continue to be transparent about what we think and why, and you should hold us to that. If there are other areas of our product or focus that we should be more transparent about, please tell us!
Thank you
Kayvon, Joe, and the Periscope team
Explore the world in real time through someone else's eyes
The core platform would not be too hard to agree on, as most people under 35 don’t disagree about things which to them are self-evident:
Gay marriage 👏 Climate change 🙀 Women’s bodies are, uh, their own 💃Military intervention for self-defense or protection only, no adventures 👊 Capitalism, duh, hugely pro 🙌 Believers/non-believers both welcome 😇
With these essentials and (any?) others agreed upon, we could spend our time debating — at least within the party — the things that are actually up for debate. It’s like my friend who told me the key to a successful marriage is to make sure you are aligned on kids, money, and sex. You’ll still fight, but you’ll spend your time fighting about “all the small things” because the big things are pre-agreed upon.
So why do this? Why establish a new party?
As of 2015, millennials (18–34) are now the largest group of human beings in the United States. 75. 3 million people. We just passed the boomers in size. And yet nearly all of our elected officials are boomers and none of them are millennials. It’s not surprising then that many millennials refer to the government as not truly representing them, or that we don’t “feel connected” to either of the current two parties. But if millennials are now the largest group of people in the country, and we are now all adults of voting age, isn’t it our job to represent ourselves?
Millennials can viably win seats in Congress now. So why not start by winning a couple seats now? If we are so good at the internet, shouldn’t we get started by using it to secure some of our own representation? And wouldn’t an amazing third party change everything about American politics if it could be a true swing vote? If the Tea Party can become influential, can’t we?
Here is one idea of how to get started:
We raise money for our candidates via crowdfunding. We mostly use YouTube and not TV, and as such we avoid a huge waste of campaign funds. We leverage social channels really well to get the message out, and go around the typical broadcast news infrastructure that invites so much money into politics. We will still need money, of course.
In races where we don’t run, which will of course be the vast majority to start, we make a recommendation to our party on who to vote for. We become influential in every election in the country. We are independent, and we recommend candidates on both sides. We welcome people of all ages to the party. Many people 35 years and above already identify with our values. They hunger for an alternative, and will be intrigued by our view of who to vote for. Our activism will give agency to our entire generation to vote, and if not satisfied by who to vote for, to run.
We are nation of entrepreneurs. If we are disappointed in the current offerings, isn’t it our job to create something that we are excited by? What was that quote about being the change you want to see in the world?
Our spirit animal could be a fox. 🐺
It’s easy to be cynical about American politics. It’s more important not to be. If we are not doing something about it, what is the purpose of our complaining?
If you think the Millennial Party is possibly a good idea, press recommend and hit retweet.
We’ll take your clicks as a vote that we should exist.
#millennialparty
I am @dunn. I love cilantro but understand the people that hate it. Founder and CEO @Bonobos Inc. www.bonobos.com and Founder @redswanventures www.redswan.vc.
Stationed on the West Coast of the United States, flanked by the blue hues of the Pacific Ocean, is a city that’s home to some of the greatest companies in the world. 700 miles south of that is San Francisco.
I moved to San Francisco two years ago to work for a startup called Padlet. I love it here. It’s like being in Hollywood, but with less-good-looking people. You have the celebs, you have the scandals, you have the media frenzy. My friends back home are full of questions:
“Is it fun?”
“You think I should look for a job there?”
“How far is Vegas?”
So, here is my experience. I hope it brings the readers closer to our little valley where we are building the future*.
My day begins with a 30 minute commute to work. I take the subway. The subway system in SF is called the BART, short for Bay Area Rapid* Transit. I love the BART because it is always full of surprises. E.g. yesterday, I was at the train station and bam! the train came on time.
Many drive to work. Driving in SF is like a theme park ride — the cars move bumper to bumper, the terrain is alpine, and the people around you have the temper of 10-year-olds.
Here is a pop-quiz — Which one’s an SF road and which one’s a roller-coaster?
Those with a death wish cycle to work. It is easy to spot a cyclist. If you see a guy with one side of his jeans rolled up to the shin, he is a moron; if you see a guy on a bicycle, he is a cyclist.
My office is in a neighbourhood called SoMa, short for South of Market. Many startup offices are in SoMa. The name is a tribute to the returns that investors in most of these startups will see in the long run.
SoMa is a vibrant area with a variety of establishments like Starbucks, local coffeeshops, grab-and-go coffee kiosks, and coffee trucks. It’s a shame I don’t drink coffee. It’s not that I don’t like the beverage. I just prefer not to consume anything at temperatures that would liquify my alimentary canal.
Why is coffee in SF so hot? Are people welding metal with it? The one time I asked a barista (phrased more politely, of course), I was reproached,
“Good coffee needs to be brewed at 200°F for full flavor.”
Odd! Good bread needs to be baked at 400°F but I don’t see any bakeries selling me searing dough bricks.
My company shares its office with two other companies — Buildzoom and Flexport. Judging from their names, Buildzoom manufactures high precision microscopes and Flexport ships fluorine to dentists in China. We all have a common investor named YC. YC is the venture capital arm of the YMCA. They invest in a lot of companies every year, many that seem outrageous on paper. E.g. they invested in a company called Swapbox, which, I believe, is cloud storage for swingers.
Now, you must be thinking — “Isn’t it stupid to judge a company by its name?” No. It’s not. Most companies in the Bay Area have obvious names:
Our office, like most modern startup offices, has an open floor plan. In an open floor plan, desks are organised like tables in a college cafeteria. However, instead of food and noise, you have computers, food, and noise.
The noise mandates that you wear headphones while working. Be careful, though. Your choice of headphones reveals a lot about your character:
An assorted collection of desks and chairs adorns our office. People reflected on their lack of fitness and concluded that the blame lay squarely on their choice of furniture. So some people have standing desks — desks so high that you have to stand to use them (or as short folks like myself like to call them, any other desks).
Markets are chockablock with these desk+gym hybrids — standing desks, treadmill desks, cycling desks. This is why I feel bullish about my swimming desk idea — a big water tank with an infinity pool and a computer bolted on one side. Noise cancelling scuba masks, snorkels, and fins come as standard equipment.
My favourite mutant furniture, however, is the “balancing ball chair”. This chair has an exercise ball in place of a seat cushion. Let me repeat that: in place of a seat cushion, this chair has, a giant ball. It’s a great way to lose weight*.

Outside of Chobani, you’d be hard pressed to find a place that talks more about culture than Silicon Valley. We want to create an environment where employees are happy, motivated, healthy, and productive.
Since people are happiest in the company of friends and family, we make sure you have work-life balance. This means you can work-from-home; on weekends. Notable exception is Yahoo. They let you home-from-work by allowing you to bring your infant to the office.
Of course, we realize that not everyone has friends. So we let you bring your dog to work. Our office has a dog too. His name is Moses. He’s sensitive to sunlight.
Unlimited vacation policy is another perk at most good companies. Travelling, after all, is an important part of the human experience. All we ask is that you don’t leave at a time when your presence is sacrosanct for the company. It can be hard to judge that at times so here is a handy table to help you decide when you can go on a vacation:
Most startups provide lunch. Given the wide array of dietary preferences people have in SF, it’s a tricky proposition. It is fairly common to have someone who is a vegetarian, a vegan, on gluten-free, on paleo, and on juice detox in an office of 3 people. Allow me to explain these diets:
Of course, we can’t talk about working in SF without actually talking about how we work.
First rule of working in Silicon Valley — keep your emails short. If the recipient finds them rude, he/she needs a lesson in productivity*. Here is a good email:
Ignore the novella length signature; the brevity rule doesn’t apply to it. Put anything there — legalese, a call to save trees, a motivational quote. Not many people know that Twitter started out as an email service for Silicon Valley professionals but didn’t catch on because it allowed way too many characters.
We don’t have meetings; meetings are to startups what kryptonite is to Spiderman — out of place. So we have all-hands*, one-on-ones, stand-ups, and huddles. Same goes for calls — we don’t make phonecalls. We sync-up, touch-base, or simply, connect. Make sure you set up the right one, or you may give people the impression that you are wasting their vocabulary.
The most sacred psalm of the startup-bible, though, is —
This is why our first hire was a lousy mountain climber.
One last thing — the startup life does not stop at work; it affects your personal life too. E.g., if you work at a startup in San Francisco, you are like the guy selling plastic souvenirs at the Eiffel tower. Everyone at the Eiffel tower is selling plastic souvenirs. So you find yourself having the same conversations with similar people. Here is an example:
Alex: I have a startup. We are Yelp for contractors.Ben: I have a startup too. We are contractors for Yelp.[Pause]Together: Business model … yada yada yada Paul Graham … Series A … lorem ipsum Google sucks.
This, in itself, is not a problem; I enjoy these conversations. The problem is that they often render you incapable of any other forms of communication. E.g.:
Girlfriend’s dad: Great weather today.Ben: Yeah. It’s beautiful.[Pause][Longer pause]Ben: So I see you use an iPhone. Android sucks, huh?
Famous investor Marc Andreessen says:
That explains why software is so shitty. Many things in the world — like Kanye, curling, and kale — are hard to digest.
Still, technology is changing the way we live, the way we love, the way we work. And a lot of that technology is being built here in San Francisco.
If this sounds exciting, come on board; Padlet is hiring, and so are a bazillion other startups. If you don’t live here and can’t relocate, don’t worry; many startups hire remotely. (Reddit isn’t anymore, FYI.)
If you are already a part of this world, why did you just waste 8 minutes? Why aren’t you working? Stop procrastinating and go ship stuff!
Founder, Padlet.
Words etc from the wonderful people at Padlet.

It has been nearly a decade since I last worked for you. I was your production assistant. I picked up your lunch. I ran your errands. I even once spilled black coffee on your white rug. In my time with you I rode rollercoasters, wore a Baby Bjorn mounted hidden camera, discovered paparazzi, laughed my ass off, was brought to tears hearing Annie Lennox warm up, and toured a post Katrina New Orleans. In the years that I worked at The Ellen DeGeneres Show I discovered Los Angeles, met my partner of a decade, and came out of the closet to my parents. The impact this time in my life had on who I am need not be underestimated. Through you, I learned the importance of being my most authentic self. I learned if I lived my truth, society will find a way to embrace me. All of me.
My life has changed immensely since I left my job at The Ellen DeGeneres Show. You see, I had a life changing day a little over 3 years ago. A line in the sand, if you will. A moment. I woke up. Fell out of bed. And into the hospital. When I got out, I needed a cane and some eyeglasses to navigate my newly disabled world.
I do not wish chronic illness on my worst frienemy. My illness and my disability left me scarred and traumatized. It wasn’t a graceful process. But amazingly enough, it is probably best thing that’s ever happened to me. Along with my Idiopathic Neuropathy diagnosis came the gift of advocacy. I now have a point of view. A change I wish to see in the world. A deep and insatiable desire to create inclusion in the highly exclusive world of fashion. I call my idea ‘Inclusive Retail’. I live, eat and breathe Inclusive Retail every moment of every day (seriously, just ask my Facebook friends). I do not believe inclusion for ‘other’ bodies will be achieved until ‘other’ bodies are seen as consumers. Who are marketed to. And designed for. Over the weekend, ol’ bossy pants suddenly popped up in my new world. And it’s a bit startling. I’m not so sure how to proceed.
So I’m going to do what I have learned to do with my doctors, and I’m just going to be honest about the discomfort of it. People have recently started asking if I have reached out, asking you to sell an inclusive product in your new ED by Ellen line. And I have said that I had not. Reaching out would force me to look back at a life I no longer recognize as my own. Plus, after a long and ultimately unsuccessful two year pursuit of J. Crew, I didn’t want to be let down yet again. But upon discovering your new model Kayla, a 9 year old with Down syndrome, I can’t help but think… what if?
Do you know how difficult it is for children and adults with Down syndrome to find garments that fit? Would you let me introduce you to two companies; Downs Design Dreams and Runway of Dreams? Would you consider collaborating with them, ultimately creating a beautiful ED by Ellen product for Kayla and her peers? Did you know you could be the first? You could be the first mainstream fashion brand to make a product for someone with a disability. You could be that person.

Downs Design Dreams and Runway of Dreams could help you make a garment for someone with Down syndrome. They are filling the gap created by Gap and other global retailers. Right now, these bodies have no options. The bodies your ED by Ellen line sees as beautiful. The bodies that your ED by Ellen line aims to empower. Features of pants for a Down syndrome body include high back rises, a tapered knee for short femurs, extra room in thighs and bottom, and the most important… sensory & motor skill friendly features (no buttons, zipper or tags, soft stretchy material and a full elastic waistband). Imagine how cute a pair of ED by Ellen joggers for children with Down syndrome could be.
Karen Bowersox, the founder of Downs Designs Dreams created a special feature for her jeans, something so thoughtful that I’d prefer to let her explain:
The way I see it, if you make one product, your influence might urge the next company to make another product. And through this new trend, instead of all the products being made by one brand, every brand could carry one or a few products. Think of the possibilities. Imagine some Levis Wheelchair Jeans. And a cane at J. Crew. And a Beats by Dre hearing aid. And a wheelchair by BMW (I mean, Jeep makes a stroller). The list goes on and on. And the entire trend could be traced back to you and that one product. That you made for your adorable 9 year old model Kayla.
Mindy Scheier of Runway of Dreams thinks it’s great that you’re featuring a model with a disability. But she won’t find it relevant until the insides match the outsides. Runway of Dreams is a non-profit organization that works with mainstream brands and retailers to create adaptable clothing. Imagine a Runway of Dreams for ED by Ellen line where the clothing fits and the child can dress his or herself.
Inclusive Retail feels so obvious to me. Why aren’t products for ‘other’ bodies a natural order of the world? Why would society exclude people who just want to be included? I mean, wasn’t it you that said “I’m a person with compassion. I care passionately about equal rights. I care about human rights”? Please help me right this wrong.
So Ellen, if it is you, if you are the person who will help me bring Inclusive Retail to life, I pre-wrote a Tweet for you. “Dear @elizejackson, Yes. I am that person. #InclusiveRetail”
Thanks and Best,
Liz Jackson, The Girl with the Purple Cane

If you’re not Ellen but you read this letter and agree, will you please click on the little heart button below. Also, will you consider sharing on Facebook and Twitter? I need your help. We ‘others’ need your help. Thank you.
I write about the intersection of disability and style. I love beautiful products.
Share your story. Express yourself. All submissions welcome. thegirlwiththepurplecane [at] gmail

One of the themes we’re exploring at the Next:Economy summit is the way that networks trump traditional forms of corporate organization, and how they are changing traditional ways of managing that organization. Uber and Airbnb are textbook examples of this trend. Uber has ambitious plans to manage hundreds of thousands — eventually even millions — of independent drivers with a small core of employees building a technology platform that manages those workers. Airbnb is on track to have more rooms on offer than large hotel chains, with under a thousand employees.
Esko Kilpi beautifully described the power of networks in an essay on Medium, “The Future of Firms,” reflecting on economist Ronald Coase’s theory of 20th century business organization. He wrote:
Of course, networks have always been a part of business. An automaker is not made up of just its industrial workers and its managers, but also of its network of parts suppliers and auto dealerships and ad agencies. Even its shareholders are a network that supports its capital needs. Similarly, large retailers are aggregation points for a network of suppliers, logistics companies, and other suppliers. Fast food vendors like McDonalds and Subway aggregate a network of franchisees. The entire film and TV industry consists of a small core of full time workers and a large network of temporary on-demand workers. This is also true of publishing and other media companies. My own company, O’Reilly Media, publishes books, puts on events, and delivers online learning with a full-time staff of five hundred and an extended family of tens of thousands of contributors — authors, conference presenters, technology advisers, and other partners.
But the Internet takes the networked firm to a new level. Google, the company that ended up as the prime gateway to the World Wide Web, provides access to a universe of content that it doesn’t own yet has become the largest media company in the world. 13–24 years olds already watch more video on YouTube, much of it user-contributed, than they watch on television. And Amazon just surpassed WalMart as the world’s most valuable retailer by offering virtually unlimited selection, including marketplace items from ordinary individuals and small businesses.
On-demand companies like Uber and Airbnb are only the latest development in an ongoing transformation of business by the Internet. In addition to discussing these latest entrants, we’ll take a look at what we learn from the evolution of Internet e-commerce and content marketplaces. Then we’ll try to tease out some best practices of Internet-era platforms and marketplaces.
Consider the evolution of the retail marketplace as exemplified first by chain stores, and then by Internet retailers like Amazon, which have largely replaced a network of small local businesses that delivered goods through retail storefronts. Cost efficiencies led to lower prices and greater selection, drawing more consumers, which in turn gave more purchasing power to larger retailers, allowing them to lower prices further and to crush rivals in a self-reinforcing cycle. National marketing of these advantages led to the rise of familiar chains.
But the Internet added even more leverage, reducing the need to invest in real estate, reaching customers who were not physically close to prime locations, and building in new habits of customer loyalty and instant gratification. With delivery now same day in many locations, anything you need is only a few clicks away.
Internet retailers like Amazon were also able to offer even larger selections of products, aggregating offerings not just from a carefully chosen network of suppliers, but opening up self-service marketplaces in which anyone can offer products. Years ago, Clay Shirky described the move from “filter, then publish” to “publish, then filter” as one of the key advantages brought by the Internet to publishing, but the lesson applies to virtually every Internet marketplace. It is fundamentally an open-ended network in which filtering and curation (otherwise known as “management”) happens largely after the fact.
But that’s not all. While large physical retailers cut costs by eliminating knowledgeable workers, using lower prices and greater selection to hedge against worse customer service (compare an old time hardware store with a chain like Home Depot or Lowe’s), online retailers did not make these same tradeoffs. Instead of eliminating knowledgeable workers, they replaced them with software.
Even though there are several orders of magnitude more products than in physical stores, you don’t need a salesperson to help you find the right product on Amazon — a search engine helps you find it. You don’t need a salesperson to help you understand which product is the best — Amazon has built software that lets customers rate the products and write reviews to tell you which are best, and then feeds that reputation information into their search engine so that the best products naturally come out on top. You don’t need a cashier to help you check out — software lets you do that yourself.


Request an invitation to the Next:Economy Summit to learn more about the evolution of 21st century business.

One way to think about the new generation of on-demand companies, such as Uber, Lyft, and Airbnb, is that they are networked platforms for physical world services, which are bringing fragmented industries into the 21st century in the same way that ecommerce has transformed retail.
Let’s start by taking a closer look at the industry in which Uber and Lyft operate.
The coordination costs of the taxicab business have generally kept it local. According to the Taxicab, Limousine and ParaTransit Association, the US taxi industry consists of approximately 6,300 companies operating 171,000 taxicabs and other vehicles. More than 80% of these are small companies operating anywhere between one and 50 taxis. Only 6% of these companies have more than 100 taxicabs. Only in the largest of these companies do multiple drivers use the same taxicab, with regular shifts. 85% of taxi and limousine drivers are independent contractors. In many cases, the taxi driver pays a rental fee (typically $120/$130 per day) to the owner of the cab (who in turn pays a dispatch and branding fee to the branded dispatch service) and keeps what he or she makes after paying that daily cost. The total number of cabs is limited by government-granted licenses, sometimes called medallions.
When you as a customer see a branded taxicab, you are seeing the brand not of the medallion owner (who may be a small business of as little as a single cab) but of the dispatch company. Depending on the size of the city, that brand may be sublicensed to dozens or even hundreds of smaller companies. This fragmented industry provides work not just for drivers but for managers, dispatchers, maintenance workers, and bookkeepers. The TLPA estimates that the industry employs a total of 350,000 people, which works out to approximately two jobs per taxicab. Since relatively few taxicabs are “double shifted” (these are often in the largest, densest locations, where it makes sense for the companies to own the cab and hire the driver as a full time employee), that suggests that half of those employed in the industry are in secondary support roles. These are the jobs that are being replaced by the efficient new platforms. Functions like auto maintenance still have to be performed, so those jobs remain. Jobs that are lost to automation are equivalent to the kinds of losses that came to bank tellers and their managers with the introduction of the ATM.
Technology is leading to a fundamental restructuring of the taxi and limousine industry from one of a network of small firms to a network of individuals, replacing many middlemen in the taxi business with software, using the freed up resources to put more drivers on the road.
Uber and Lyft use algorithms, GPS, and smartphone apps to coordinate driver and passenger. The extraordinary soon becomes commonplace, so we forget how our first ride was a magical user experience. That magic can lead us to overlook the fact that, at bottom, Uber and Lyft provide dispatch and branding services much like existing taxi companies, only more efficiently. And like the existing taxi industry, they essentially subcontract the job of transport — except in this case, they subcontract to individuals rather than to smaller businesses, and take a percentage of the revenue rather than charging a daily rental fee for the use of a branded taxicab.
These firms use technology to eliminate the jobs of what used to be an enormous hierarchy of managers (or a hierarchy of individual firms acting as suppliers), replacing them with a relatively flat network managed by algorithms, network-based reputation systems, and marketplace dynamics. These firms also rely on their network of customers to police the quality of their service. Lyft even uses its network of top-rated drivers to onboard new drivers, outsourcing what once was a crucial function of management.
It’s useful to call out some specific features of the new model.

In my initial post, The WTF Economy, I wrote:
It would have lacked the immediate punch, but I could also have written:
The reason: Subway owns no restaurants, while McDonalds owns 20% of its restaurants, with the remaining 80% franchised. (Employment across both owned and franchised restaurants at McDonalds is over 1.9 million.)
In many ways, Uber and Airbnb represent a 21st century update of the franchising model. In franchising, the parent company brands and markets the product, sets standards for producing it, and charges a licensing fee and receives a percentage of revenue from each of its franchisees.
The difference is that technology radically lowers the barriers to being a franchisee. In many ways, you can call the modern trend “the franchise of one.” The smallest unit of franchising in the past was a small business, with all the overhead that implies: real estate, equipment, uniforms, employees (including managers), and so on. Today, the franchise can be a single individual, and that individual can work only part time, so it’s really “the franchise of one or even less!”
Branding and advertising are much less necessary because the app itself becomes a customer habit that delivers business. There are little or no capital requirements, workers can schedule their own time, and turn their own under-utilized personal assets (a car, a house, or other equipment) into business assets. In her book Peers Inc, Robin Chase refers to this as “excess capacity.”
This is exactly the dynamic that Kilpi references when he describes how the radically lower transaction costs of networks give them advantage over traditional firms.
Though the details of the taxi industry differ from the hotel industry, the same dynamic applies to another great success story of the On-demand economy, Airbnb. Like Uber and Lyft, Airbnb uses technology to make excess capacity available in locations that were otherwise extremely poorly served. Even in great cities, hotels are available only in some neighborhoods, and completely unavailable in others. By contrast, Airbnbs can be found anywhere that there is demand.
A small personal anecdote: I recently got married in Fort Tryon Park in New York City, near the Cloisters. The nearest hotel is 1.5 miles away, and the closest “nice” hotel 3.8 miles, yet my fiance and I were able to walk to our wedding site from a beautiful, comfortable Airbnb facing the park and just 5 minutes away. Many of our guests stayed locally as well.
As with Uber and Lyft, we see that the granular nature of supply (the franchise of one, or even less than one) makes it easy for more natural market mechanisms to come into play. People can offer a resource that they already own, testing the market to see if there is demand and at what price. If they are satisfied with the transaction, they can continue to offer that resource. More supply will come on stream to match demand in highly desirable locations.
There are some interesting lessons, though, about the evolution of the supply network. While Airbnb began as a network of properties offered solely by individuals, already 40% of Airbnb properties are now offered by hosts who own more than one property. There are also anecdotal reports that small companies owning multiple cars are starting to be part of the Uber network.
The evolution of Airbnb’s network echoes the evolution of the World Wide Web and the media platform businesses that grew up on it, such as Yahoo, Google, YouTube, and Facebook.
The World Wide Web began as a peer-to-peer network of individuals who were both providing and consuming content. Yet twenty five years on, the World Wide Web is dominated by the media presence of large companies, though there is still plenty of room for individuals, mid-sized companies, and aggregators of smaller companies and individuals. While the platform itself began in decentralized fashion, its growth in complexity led to increasing centralization of power. Everyone started out with an equal chance at visibility, but over time, mechanisms were invented to navigate the complexity: first directories, then search engines.
Eventually, there grew up a rich ecosystem of intermediaries, including, at the top of the food chain, first Yahoo! then Google and their various competitors, but also content aggregators of various sizes and types, such as the Huffington Post and Buzzfeed, as well as various companies, from Search Engine Optimizers to advertising firms like DoubleClick and Aquantive and content delivery firms like Akamai and Fastly, who help other firms optimize their performance in the marketplace.
Later media networks such as YouTube, Facebook, and the Apple App Store bypassed this evolution and began as centralized portals, but even there, you see some of the same elements. In each case, the marketplace was at first supplied by small individual contributors, but eventually, larger players — companies, brands, and superstars — come to dominate.
In addition, the central player begins by feeding its network of suppliers, but eventually begins to compete with it. In its early years, Google provided no content of its own, simply sending customers off to the best independent websites. But over time, more and more types of content are offered directly by Google. Amazon began simply as a marketplace for publishers; eventually, they became a publisher. Over time, as networks reach monopoly or near-monopoly status, they must wrestle with the issue of how to create more value than they capture — how much value to take out of the ecosystem, versus how much they must leave for other players in order for the marketplace to continue to thrive.
I believe we will see some of these same dynamics play out in the new networked platforms for physical world services, such as Uber, Lyft, and Airbnb. Successful individuals build small companies, and some of the small companies turn into big ones. Eventually, existing companies join the platform. By this logic, I expect to see large hotel chains offering rooms on Airbnb, and existing taxi companies affiliating with Uber and Lyft. To optimize their success, these platforms will need to make it possible for many kinds of participants in the marketplace to succeed.

Here are some key lessons for companies wanting to emulate the success of Internet marketplaces like Amazon, Google, Uber, and Airbnb:
Join the discussion. What do you think are the best practices of networked businesses? What principles will drive the success of these businesses in the future? What should they watch out for?
Founder and CEO, O'Reilly Media. Watching the alpha geeks, sharing their stories, helping the future unfold.
How work, business and society face massive, technology-driven change. Curated by Tim O’Reilly, Steven Levy and Lauren Smiley, in conjunction with the Next: Economy Summit coming to San Francisco in November.
A tale of differing visions
So this is it. Here we are. The community is divided and Bitcoin is forking: both the software and, perhaps, the block chain too. The two sides of the split are Bitcoin Core and a slight variant of the same program, called Bitcoin XT. As of August 15th, there is now a full release available.
Such a fork has never happened before. I want to explain things from the perspective of the Bitcoin XT developers: let it not be said there was insufficient communication.
Bitcoin forking is a topic that may interest many people, so this article is meant for a general audience. It doesn’t assume previous knowledge of the debate.
The founding vision for Bitcoin was carefully laid out by Satoshi, and has always been crystal clear. This dispute is about growth. In 2008 he responded to the first question ever asked about Bitcoin’s design with a simple statement:
He was in many ways more blasé about scaling Bitcoin up than any of us have ever been. He planned for Bitcoin to become popular right from the start, and knew that success would change how people used his system. In 2010 he said this:
In 2011 I fleshed out Satoshi’s scaling intuitions with a series of calculations: what if Bitcoin became so popular it replaced VISA completely? The answer was that his plan is credible — you’d never need more than a single computer, even with such a large amount of traffic. I also implemented the mode he talked about, as he left before finishing the work.
Satoshi’s plan brought us all together. It changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of us across the globe. Some of us quit our jobs, others devoted their spare time to the project, still others founded companies and even moved across the world. It’s the idea of ordinary people paying each other via a block chain that created and united this global community.
That’s the vision I signed up for. That’s the vision Gavin Andresen signed up for. That’s the vision so many developers and startup founders and evangelists and users around the world signed up for.
That vision is now in jeopardy. In recent months it’s become clear that a small group of people have a radically different plan for Bitcoin. These people have never really been comfortable with Satoshi’s intentions because they fear success — what if technology never improved, what if people couldn’t run Bitcoin on their home computers any more? Would that not somehow make Bitcoin less peer-to-peer, and more like banking? What if people start to rely on Bitcoin even though it’s imperfect?
So now Satoshi is gone they want to make drastic changes — networks of payment routing hubs, sharp rises in fees, ending support for mobile P2P wallets, giving up on unconfirmed transactions, and many other things that never appeared in any of our project’s founding documents.
The so-called “Lightning network” that is being pushed as an alternative to Satoshi’s design does not exist. The paper describing it was only published earlier this year. If implemented, it would represent a vast departure from the Bitcoin we all know and love. To pick just one difference amongst many, Bitcoin addresses wouldn’t work. What they’d be replaced with has not been worked out (because nobody knows). There are many other surprising gotchas, which I published an article about. It’s deeply unclear that whatever is finally produced would be better than the Bitcoin we have now.
In theory, none of this should be a problem. The Lightning Network builds on top of the block chain but needs only fairly trivial upgrades to it for best functioning. So people who would like to explore this direction are free to do so. If what they built worked better than plain vanilla Bitcoin then the market should prefer payments being made that way, and if so … fair play to them! Bitcoin’s current design is unlikely to be the last word in making payments. It’s reasonable to think that one day it will be outcompeted or augmented by something else.
But the system we have today works. It has an ecosystem, it has developers. It has exchanges and wallets and people buying and selling and ATMs and books and apps and conferences and a large base of people who have learned how it works.
Would people decide to migrate to a radically different system, if given a free choice?
We don’t know, and the people pushing for these things don’t want to let the market decide. This is what’s gone wrong.
A long time ago, Satoshi put in place a temporary kludge: he limited the size of each block to one megabyte. He did this in order to keep the block chain small in the early days, until what we now call SPV wallets were built (‘client only mode’). As seen in the quote above, it was never meant to be permanent and he talked about phasing it out when the time came. In the end it wasn’t needed — I wrote the first SPV implementation in 2011 and with my esteemed colleague Andreas Schildbach, together we built the first and still most popular Android wallet. Since then SPV wallets have been made for every platform. So Satoshi’s reason for the temporary limit has been resolved a long time ago.
As Bitcoin has grown, so have the blocks. Reasonable traffic projections indicate that as Bitcoin spreads via word of mouth, we will reach the limit of the current system some time next year, or by 2017 at the absolute latest. And another bubble or press cycle could push us over the limit before even that. The result might not be pretty.
So it is now time to raise the limit, or remove it entirely. That was always the plan. This is where the problem starts: those who don’t want to see Bitcoin scale up as Satoshi intended have decided to stall the process of doing so. They see a golden, one-time opportunity to forcibly divert Bitcoin from its intended path and onto a wildly different technical trajectory. They don’t know exactly what the alternative design will be, and certainly haven’t built it — but that doesn’t matter. They think that by blocking the blockchain’s growth they can “incentivise” (i.e. force) the Bitcoin community to switch to something different, something more in line with their personal technical tastes.
So far I have not elaborated much on these people’s arguments, or who they are. I thought long and hard about naming names in this article, but in the end it seemed unproductive. Those who care enough to follow this drama already know, and those who don’t wouldn’t recognise the people involved anyway.
Suffice it to say they are a handful of people who either have commit access to the Bitcoin Core source repository, work for people who do, people who have been persuaded by their arguments, and a few others who arrived at similar conclusions on their own.
So let us instead discuss those arguments. There have been many. As each one came up, Gavin and myself have written articles analysing them and rebutting them. Sometimes the answers were common sense, other times they were deeper and required more work, like doing network simulations.
The best repository to learn about these arguments is Gavin’s blog. I wish I could link you to a similar collection of rebuttal’s to Gavin’s writings, but there isn’t one.
To summarise a long and exhausting debate, the objections fall into a few different groups:
There are others: if your favourite objection isn’t listed above, go read Gavin’s blog to find it.
The first point might be true one day — it’s tough to compare Bitcoin to theoretical systems which exist only on paper. But nobody who looked at any alternative designs on the table think they they could be implemented within the 12 months we probably have before the Bitcoin network runs out of capacity (example, see last paragraph, another example) ….. even assuming they were better. It is an example of the Nirvana Fallacy:
The second objection is too vague to answer; there are credible reasons to believe that a full upgrade of every Bitcoin node might take a year, and actually running out of capacity would cause serious disruption. We should really have started before now. There are two people on the bitcoin-development mailing list with professional capacity planning experience and both think the process must start right now. Demanding it be delayed until some unspecified future date is not sound engineering.
The final point is the most troublesome and heated by far. It is based in two assumptions:
It would be great if Bitcoin was so compelling that demand for it was infinite: I could just stop improving my software and wait for the rising price to make me rich. Back here in reality Bitcoin exists in a competitive marketplace. Growth is not a god-given right. Every user we win takes effort, every person persuaded takes time. Bitcoin is currently growing, but only at a gentle pace. I wish I could confidently say the cost of running a full Bitcoin node will go up in future: that would imply our success is outstripping the combined efforts of the entire hardware industry. That industry is astonishing: in 2007 the iPhone launched to the world, it cost $500. Just 7 years later the Forme P9 smartphone launched for $30. It matches every feature the iPhone had and then goes significantly beyond.
With the second assumption, we reach the hard core of this debate: Should Bitcoin grow, even if the network changes its structure as a result?
The founder of the project gave a clear answer to this question — YES
We have been working on this plan ever since. To try and change that answer to “no” not only violates the Bitcoin social contract, but goes against the wishes of many, many people in the Bitcoin community.
Those who really believe that an über-niche currency is better should create an alt coin with a limited size block chain as part of the founding vision. Not try and convert Bitcoin into one by exploiting the casual nature of an old, quick kludge.
Why can this dispute not be resolved in some more civilised manner than an outright split?
Put simply, the decision making process in Bitcoin Core has broken.
In theory, like almost all open source projects, Core has a “maintainer”. The job of a maintainer is to shepherd the project and make decisions about what goes in and what doesn’t. The maintainer is the boss. A good maintainer gathers feedback, weighs arguments and then makes decisions. But in the case of Bitcoin Core the block size debate has been allowed to drag on for years.
The problem is that any change, no matter how obvious, can be nixed entirely if it becomes “controversial”, meaning another person with commit access objects. As there are five committers and many other non-committers who can also make changes “controversial” this is a recipe for deadlock. The fact that the block size was never meant to be permanent has ceased to matter: the fact that removing it is debated, is, by itself, enough to ensure it will not happen. Like a committee with no chairman, the meeting never ends. To quote the committer who has pushed hardest for stasis, “Bitcoin needs a leader like a fish needs a bicycle”.
Compounding this problem is an absolute disinterest in listening to the wider community.
Raising the block size is supported by, amongst others:
This list is far from complete. Many other key players in the ecosystem haven’t commented publicly, but have expressed support to Gavin and myself in private.
So you can see that this isn’t some strange campaign of conquest by Gavin and myself. If we weren’t preparing for this change, others would.
How did those pushing for 1mb blocks respond to all these people?
They didn’t, because they never asked for their views at all. To quote one influential member of the Bitcoin Core community:
Companies represent many of Bitcoin’s most passionate, devoted and technical people. They provide critical infrastructure. Yet the views of the people who build them are considered “misleading to the sense of consensus”.
What about wallet developers? They are the people most exposed to the needs of day to day users.
Never asked. When they spoke up anyway, it made no difference; their views are considered irrelevant.
That isn’t surprising: this group measures the relevance of someone’s opinions by how many commits to Core they have. It’s become clearer and clearer that the “consensus” that’s so often talked about in the Bitcoin Core community really means the views of a tiny handful of people, regardless of what anyone else in the wider community might think, how much work they have done, or how many users their products have.
Put another way, “developer consensus” is marketing, wool pulled over the eyes of Bitcoin users to blind them from the truth: just two or three people acting in concert can break Bitcoin in whatever way they see fit.
Do they even recognise that a large number of critical people disagree? No. Quoting one of the committers again:
This can only be true if you classify vast numbers of the engineers building the Bitcoin ecosystem as “non technical”.
Clearly, there is a serious problem here. Communication has broken down, both sides feel they are vigorously defending decentralisation and the One True Bitcoin Vision. The community is divided.
This leaves one last mechanism for resolving the dispute. We can make a modified version of the software, and put it to a vote of miners via the usual chain fork logic used for upgrades. If a majority upgrade to the new version and produce a larger than 1mb block, the minority would reject it and be put onto a parallel block chain. To get back in sync with the rest of the network they would then have to adopt the fork, clearly resolving the system in favour. If the majority never upgrade, the fork would never happen and the 1mb limit would be hit.
It would seem like all participants should support such a move: clearly, consensus cannot be reached via the usual mechanisms and thus putting it to something resembling a vote should look like a good way to make progress.
Here we come to the last and most fatal source of disagreement.
Of the 5 Bitcoin Core committers, Gavin and Jeff support a fork but the other three appear to believe that any controversial hard fork is unthinkable, madness, reckless, should never ever happen and doing it would seriously harm Bitcoin, perhaps even fatally. If any of them are in favour of resolving via a fork, I haven’t seen them express that anywhere.
We strongly disagree with this assessment. We don’t think the sky will fall if the chain forks. We think people on the small-blocks side of the chain will upgrade and continue on the bigger-blocks side. There will be plenty of time for them to know about the change and prepare. But of course, this has made no difference to the belief of the Bitcoin Core developers who dislike hard forks. They are steadfastly against.
In short, they believe that the only mechanism that Bitcoin has to keep them in check should never be used.
I don’t think they really mean it to come across this way, but it does. Their view is that there shouldn’t be any alternative to their decisions. That anything they object to, for whatever reason, is killed forever … and that Bitcoin is thus their toy to do with as they please.
This state of affairs cannot go on. The Bitcoin Core project has shown it cannot reform and so it must be abandoned.
That is why Bitcoin has forked.
We hope everyone understands.
Open minded reading
Amazon isn’t the only company burning out their employees with unsustainable expectations. Let’s break the cycle.
Update: Want to achieve better work-life balance within your own team? Check out “Less is more: leading your team to better results through work-life balance” on the Asana blog.
— — —
Last week, I spoke to an ambitious group of high school students at SPARC in Berkeley. Several of them asked me about things I wish I had done or learned earlier in life, or regrets I had from earlier in my career. Again and again, I came back to the idea that I wish I had lived my life differently.
I wish I had slept more hours, and exercised regularly. I wish I had made better decisions about what to eat or drink — at times I consumed more soda and energy drinks than water. I wish I had made more time for other experiences that helped me grow incredibly quickly once I gave them a chance.
You might think: but if you had prioritized those things, wouldn’t your contributions have been reduced? Would Facebook have been less successful?
Actually, I believe I would have been more effective: a better leader and a more focused employee. I would have had fewer panic attacks, and acute health problems — like throwing out my back regularly in my early 20s. I would have picked fewer petty fights with my peers in the organization, because I would have been generally more centered and self-reflective. I would have been less frustrated and resentful when things went wrong, and required me to put in even more hours to deal with a local crisis. In short, I would have had more energy and spent it in smarter ways… AND I would have been happier. That’s why this is a true regret for me: I don’t feel like I chose between two worthy outcomes. No, I made a foolish sacrifice on both sides.
This week, the tech industry has been passionately debating a recent New York Times article about Amazon’s intense work culture. Many found the article one-sided, using dramatic anecdotes to caricature a culture built around passion and intensity, while some insiders have risen to publicly defend the company. However, as far as I can tell, most people do not contest that the culture is intense and people do work really hard at Amazon. Fundamentally, this is a familiar part of tech culture: at high performing companies, employees work extremely hard, to an extent that is unsustainable for most people.
But it doesn’t have to be this way.
Many people believe that weekends and the 40-hour workweek are some sort of great compromise between capitalism and hedonism, but that’s not historically accurate. They are actually the carefully considered outcome of profit-maximizing research by Henry Ford in the early part of the 20th century. He discovered that you could actually get more output out of people by having them work fewer days and fewer hours. Since then, other researchers have continued to study this phenomenon, including in more modern industries like game development.
The research is clear: beyond ~40–50 hours per week, the marginal returns from additional work decrease rapidly and quickly become negative. We have also demonstrated that though you can get more output for a few weeks during “crunch time” you still ultimately pay for it later when people inevitably need to recover. If you try to sustain crunch time for longer than that, you are merely creating the illusion of increased velocity. This is true at multiple levels of abstraction: the hours worked per week, the number of consecutive minutes of focus vs. rest time in a given session, and the amount of vacation days you take in a year.
Rest matters.
So it is with deep sadness that I observe the current culture of intensity in the tech industry. My intellectual conclusion is that these companies are both destroying the personal lives of their employees and getting nothing in return. A candidate recently deciding between Asana and another fast growing company told me that the other team starts their dinners at 830pm to encourage people to stay late (he’s starting here in a few weeks). I also hear young developers frequently brag about “48 hour” coding sprints. This kind of attitude not only hurts young workers who are willing to “step up” to the expectation, but facilitates ageism and sexism by indirectly discriminating against people who cannot maintain that kind of schedule.
Why are companies doing this? It must be some combination of 1/ not knowing the research 2/ believing the research is somehow flawed or doesn’t apply to them (they’re wrong) or 3/ understanding that many people see these cultural artifacts as a signal about the intensity and passion of the team. I believe it is a combination of all three factors, and the third one resonates particularly strongly with me. We’ve worked hard to build a culture at Asana where people don’t work too hard, but we sometimes have candidates tell us they are worried that means we don’t move fast enough, or have enough urgency. I’m not sure what I would do if I thought these values were actually in conflict, but fortunately they are not. We get to encourage a healthy work-life balance in the cold, hard pursuit of profit. We are maximizing our velocity and our happiness at the same time.
As an industry, we are falling short of our potential. We could be accomplishing more, and we could be providing a better life for all of the people who work in technology. If you’re going to devote the best years of your life to work, do so intentionally. You can do great things AND live your life well. You can have it all, and science says you should.
Note: I’ve written this from the perspective of the tech industry, since that’s my perspective, but the pattern definitely exists prominently in other industries, and in companies across all industries.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
“The best things we know and love started as tiny things.” — Joel Gascoigne
Buffer’s CEO, Joel, wrote a post not too long ago about the importance of starting small with new projects. He makes some great points about how easy it is to see the finished product of someone else’s hard work and forget about how long it took them to get to that point:
“It’s difficult to understand how the evolutionary process of products and brands contributes and is vital to what they are today.”
Joel goes on to say that success is more likely when we execute on small projects. Start small and let them grow, essentially.
To give us a little insight into just how simple some of the today’s juggernaut web companies were when they started out, I thought it would be fun to do some time traveling in the Wayback Machine. Design can’t tell us everything about what’s happening behind the scenes at a company, but it’s one way to visualize the progress of a product or service over time. Plus, each of these companies’ founders have some useful advice on why they started small and how it helped them grow into the successes they are today.
So let’s take a look at how these major companies evolved from their humble beginnings:

“I’m here to build something for the long-term. Anything else is a distraction.” — Mark Zuckerberg
Zuckerberg’s vision for Facebook is a big one: to make the world more socially connected. Although he started with a small solution to connect college students, Facebook has grown into one of the biggest, most popular social networks alive today, and continues to grow because he’s committed to building out the company over time:
“I know it sounds corny, but I’d love to improve people’s lives, especially socially… Making the world more open is not an overnight thing. It’s a ten-to-fifteen-year thing.”
Today, Facebook is bigger and more complicated than it was to start with, but Zuckerberg stays committed to his vision:
“A lot of founding principles of Facebook are that if people have access to more information and are more connected, it will make the world better; people will have more understanding, more empathy. That’s the guiding principle for me. On hard days, I really just step back, and that’s the thing that keeps me going.”


“When Sergey and I founded Google, we hoped, but did not expect, it would reach its current size and influence. Our intense and enduring interest was to objectively help people find information efficiently.” — Larry Page
Google’s design has remained sparse over the years, even as the company has expanded and added more services like Maps, YouTube, Gmail and Drive. When you hit Google.com today, it’s still clear what one thing Google is focused on: finding information.
Tumblr’s founder David Karp created the service to fill a need he had. Blogging was becoming more popular but it was mainly focused on writing — something Karp rightly assumed that not everyone wanted to do.
“You get that big empty box, and it demands that you come up with like a witty headline that convinces people to click over and care about your post, it demands several paragraphs of nicely formatted HTML with little aligned images, and a real editorial voice, real writing.” — David Karp
Today, Karp attributes Tumblr’s success — with its vision of “more stuff” including visuals like photos and GIFs — to continuing the strong focus of building something his team loves and uses:
“I think something that is still very true of Tumblr today is it is still a product our team builds for ourselves first and foremost and something we’re excited to use every day, and we spend hours every day using. I’d like to believe that not only comes through in the product, but that it’s kept us close to what Tumblr is really about, kept us from straying too far from that, and that I think kept it true to the original vision.”

The YouTube team is committed to testing their assumptions and building based on how the community engages with their product, based on previous experience:
“We had a lot of our own ideas about how the service would evolve. Coming from PayPal and eBay, we saw YouTube as a powerful way to add video to auctions, but we didn’t see anyone using our product that way, so we didn’t add features to support it.” — Chad Hurley
Co-founder Chad Hurley advises other startup founders to test their assumptions and listen to users, rather than jumping into a big product roadmap from the beginning, based soley on your own vision:

Yahoo!, like most of these companies, started out as a very small project to solve a specific problem: the founders had trouble digging up websites they wanted to revisit later, so they started cataloging the web.
“We called it ‘Jerry’s Guide to the World Wide Web.’ Before we knew it, people from all over the world were using this database that we created.” — Jerry Yang
From his experience at Yahoo!, co-founder Jerry Yang suggests being prepared for scaling up your business:


“We innovate by starting with the customer and working backwards. That becomes the touchstone for how we invent.” — Jeff Bezos
Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, insists that putting customers first since the beginning has been — and continues to be — the best competitive advantage Amazon has.
Since Amazon’s humble beginning as an online bookstore, it’s become a huge online retailer, selling almost everything. But even with huge growth, Bezos remains focused on what customers want:
“When [competitors are] in the shower in the morning, they’re thinking about how they’re going to get ahead of one of their top competitors. Here in the shower, we’re thinking about how we are going to invent something on behalf of a customer.”

There are plenty of other examples of starting small. In Joel’s post, he shares the example of Dale Carnegie’s book, How to Win Friends and Influence People, which started out as a short talk and some notes on an index card.
Another example I love is the “email-first startup.” Sunrise is a great example: what started out as a daily email digest is now a full-fledged calendar app for iPhone.
If you liked this post, you might also like The Habits of Successful People: They Have a Growth Mindset and People Don’t Buy Products, They Buy Better Versions of Themselves.
Originally published at blog.bufferapp.com on February 13, 2014.Image credits: Complex, Wayback Machine, Toby Bradbury
Interested in social media tips & strategies that set you up for success?

25 social media strategies and video tips, delivered daily
Buffer helps you share to Twitter, Facebook, Pinterest, LinkedIn & more. We're a team of 30+ spread across the world. We're hiring! http://buffer.com/journey
Sharing our ideas and experiences


Every early stage startup has doubters, naysayers, and skeptics. These people will tell you that you can’t do it, that you shouldn’t do it, that you are wasting your time. They will tell you that your idea is stupid and that you are burning your investor’s money.
Can you blame them? Let’s be honest here, when you first heard of Twitter, could you have guessed that it would be a $20B public company? Or even better, what if two students pitched you on the 17th search engine, when clearly you already knew that Yahoo cornered that market.
Add to this, that as an entrepreneur, you are filled with your own self-doubt. You will question why you left your safe job and risked everything for this idea that no one believes in except for you.
When that time comes, read this. Read this as a reminder that even the billon-dollar unicorns started off as fragile little babies.
To bring this point home, check out these amazing comment threads we found across the web.
On July 15, 2006, Techcrunch published a story about Odeo launching Twitter. The naysayers came out by the hundreds. Here is the headline:

And here are some of the comments. I especially love this first one:
In case you missed it, the commenter insisted on capitalizing NEVER. Classic.
Here’s another, a bit longer.
Although, I will give the commenter credit for claiming Twitter is not focused… which arguably is an accurate assessment even to this day. ;)
One more for good laughs:
That one actually names names (CRV) and ponders if burning money in a big BBQ party would be a better use of their investment.

Founded by an ex-Googler, Instagram actually started as a location-based mobile app. Here is the TechCrunch article (Sept 20, 2010) covering Instagram’s launch:


And here are two comments for your reading pleasure:
Oh man that was a doozy. Can someone please talk to the VCs and make sure they are funding real business models. Thank you.
One more:

Someone is going to make a plugin for cameras that already has filters… yeah they did, it’s called Instagram and it’s a mobile app. Nice one.

I’ve included two TC headlines for Uber. There is enough negative comments to go around and I wanted to give you a taste of how the comments change as the company matures.
Here is the first headline I could find on TechCrunch about UberCab (July 5, 2010) when Ryan Graves was still CEO:

This commenter wants to remind us that Uber’s monopoly is coming to an end (note this comment was made in 2012):

There were a couple other commenters on the above article accusing Uber of being a “fraud” and “complete crap.” They followed up with constructive advice, which is helpful.
Here is another headline, just seven months later:

Check out this beefy comment. We have what seems to be a domain expert:
That commenter walked us through the economics behind the taxi market and why Uber’s valuation is way too high ($60M post). Hold the phones, the taxi busy is very “mom and pop”… can someone call Travis ASAP please.
And one more shorter comment:
Is Uber equivalent to calling a taxi? I wouldn’t know — I’ve never really “called” a taxi but I do use Uber/Lyft almost weekly.


Pinterest launched in March 2010. It closed a round for $10M in mid 2011 and then another larger round for $27M in October, 2011, valuing the company around $200M.

The commenters here aren’t as bearish as they were on the others. Also, TechCrunch was using Facebook commenting system at the time and I suspect this had something to do with it. Here’s a commenter reminding us how “stupid” of an idea Pinterest is and how “gullible” startup VCs are:

Here’s another shorter comment. To this person’s credit, it could be argued that Pinterest is in fact a “sophisticated bookmarking system.” Nevertheless, it’s a good one at that.


So there you have it folks — four awesome startups that got trolled on their launch day. Although we can easily look back and laugh at these comments, there are hundreds of other startups that didn’t have it so easy.
Surely there is a lesson here. What you need to remind yourself of — and what is most important here — is that as long as you follow your passion, trust your gut, and work your ass off, the end will likely justify the means. Ignore the haters and do you. Do you. Follow your heart, follow your passion. Focus on your product and your brand advocates.

Like this post? Click ‘recommend’ below or throw me a tweet at @benhoffman_.
Thank you @danscalco for the help & inspiration on this post.
Learn, Teach, Repeat.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
I have a warning for you.
Ten years ago, or even five, this warning would have been simple. Back then, when screenwriters got together to bitch (which was often) it was usually about directors for being bullies, or for trying to steal a shared “Screenplay by” credit, or cutting necessary dialogue, or just plain botching things.
But, that’s not the case anymore.
The sands under all of us have shifted. And today, directors — even the arrogant ones — are running scared like everybody else.
When I started writing there were still a few mavericks out there; a few gunslingers who ran studios.
These were people who went with their guts and would make a movie just because they believed in it.
But that’s not the process anymore.
Today, before a studio chair can green-light a movie, that movie must also be blessed by the head of marketing, the head of foreign sales, and the head of home video.
It must be subjected to a process called “running the numbers,” which means that the movie’s cost — or, downside — is compared against its potential value because of its cast and what it might do in foreign markets.
This process takes into account every variable except the variable which actually matters — the one that can't possibly be gauged by any sort of calculus — which is whether or not the movie’s going to be any good.
And yet the process continues.
There are other challenges too. Ones born of progress itself.
It’s axiomatic now that the technology of movie making has never been greater than it is today, but I don't think any of us can honestly say that movies themselves have never been greater.
These things are not unrelated.
Suppose we were going to shoot a scene in a typical room. We can now, if we want to, add elements to that scene to make it more visually arresting.
We could light the ceiling on fire by using CGI.
We could enhance the experience by projecting it in 3-D.
Does any of this have anything to do with story, or character? No.
But, it would look great in the trailer.
That kind of thinking, the idea that dazzling visuals are enough, has led to a certain kind of movie-making laziness that has not been good for anybody.
Worse, it’s made it tougher and tougher to dazzle the audience because they know out there now that we’re making movies with software instead of cameras.
We’re storytellers, which means we have to do better. Sometimes I think we have to rescue the business from the very people who own it.
The good news is, we can.
Inside every one of you is the flame that has always lit the way in this industry, which is originality — that one spark of an idea, that one archetypal character, story, truth, or world that no one’s ever captured before.
Do you remember the movie WALL-E, the brilliant Pixar film?
He’s in a dangerous world and he’s one of thousands who are supposed to clean it up.
But, there’s something special about WALL-E. He finds this little tiny sprig which might one day become a plant. He guards it, and saves it, and preserves it on the chance that it might some day turn into something beautiful.
Well, Hollywood is that dangerous world and you are WALL-E.
That’s your charge now — greatness.
You have to pursue it every single day in everything you do; in your work ethic, in the way you conduct yourself, in who you choose to do business with.
You are now part of the most collaborative medium anywhere in the world and much of your success in it is going to be determined by how well you listen.
I was very fortunate in that regard. As the child of divorced parents, I learned early how to take two warring factions and make them both feel they had been heard.
This works fantastic in meetings.
You’re going to get a lot of notes in your career. And it’ll be your instinct to resent them. But, I’m telling you now to ignore this instinct.
The fact is that most of the notes you get will be smart and thoughtful.
And all of them — even the bad ones — will teach you something about where you failed to articulate something as clearly as you had it in your head or where something just didn’t make it on the page, where something just didn’t land.
But what will mostly define you more than anything else is what projects you say yes to and what projects you say no to.
Here’s a rule of thumb about that.
If someone offers you a job on a project that has real heat, a star attached to it, or some wonderful pedigree, and you find that you’re not waking up every morning thinking about it, if it’s not living inside of you trying to claw its way out, then don’t write it.
And always remember that if you are inspired we will be too.
The best advice I ever heard about writing came from Paddy Chayefsky — he, of Network and The Hospital. He also wrote Marty. (That’s three Oscars.)
Chayefsky’s advice to writers was simple: Don’t think of it as art, think of it as work.
Because when a writer is stuck and he or she calls in another writer for help, that second writer doesn’t say, “What’s the art problem?”
That second writer says, “What’s not working?” And they get under the hood and fix it together.
That’s most of what you’ll do in your career — work, problem solving. Approach it in that way and then at the end of every day, you’ll at least be able to say, “I did my job today.”
If you’re an artist, it’ll come out as art anyway.
The truth is there are millions of variables that will profoundly affect your career. Variables over which you have zero control.
You have no control over the state of the economy or over the health of our industry.
You have no say in whether or not the DVD business flat-lines, or whether or not the market is suddenly ripe for thrillers or superhero movies or — god help us — romantic comedies.
So maximize that variable.
I take my son to his bus stop every morning at 7:30. I’m at my desk working by 8:00. Somebody feeds me at 1:00 and I’m back at my desk by 1:30, working until 6:00.
I don’t surf the web. I don’t gamble online. I don’t go to the local Starbucks for two hours. I don’t try to seek out old girlfriends on Facebook.
I don’t do anything that requires time. I just work.
I do this because there’s a mountaintop that I’m trying to get to and I’m nowhere near it.
I can see it from here. But, the accomplishments of our greatest writers, that’s the Holy Grail for me.
I want to leave a legacy like they did.
I want to spend a lot of time in tuxedos.
The next time the AFI does a list of the 100 greatest movies of all time, I want my name on one of them, at least.
And I want some day in 2032, for someone to cite one of my movies with the same kind of reverence I have for those movies of the ‘70s.
Luck will not get me there, although I will need plenty of it.
The only thing that will get me there is my willingness to write that 15th draft, or proofread it one more time, or be open to notes from someone who’s smarter than I am.
It may be that I’ll get notes from one of you one day. And I trust that they’ll be good ones.
I’ll leave you with one last thought.
At the Writers’ Guild building on Third and Fairfax there’s a library. In that library you can read any screenplay that you’d ever want to read.
Visit that library. It’s your history up on those shelves; the bar that was set for you by the writers that have preceded you.
Their struggles belong to you now. Cherish them. Learn from them. Let them challenge you to keep getting better.
I wish you nothing but the best.
This is an excerpt from Billy Ray’s keynote speech at the 2012 Academy Nicholl Fellowship awards.
We are The Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences and we champion the power of human imagination.
A conversation about the power of movies
“they said ‘how ya gonna keep your job if ya performance has suffered from low morale’ eem the janitor was dyin”
I got fired two days ago.
It was a slight surprise. I knew it was going to happen, but I didn’t expect for it to happen so soon.
Getting fired was embarrassing. I have never been fired before! Being asked to turn in my key and access card, and that they would pack up and mail me my stuff... Having my big boss escort me to my cubicle to make sure I wouldn’t steal any paperclips… I felt like a slug being salted to death while a cruel child smiled down. I had relocated! I had been there over two years! That had to at least count for something, right?
No.
Getting fired was sad. All those Peewee Longway memes saved on my work computer… gone. I’ll never get those back.
Getting fired was frightening. My wife and two daughters rely on me to pay our bills, and I felt like I had failed them. I’m lucky enough that I will receive my salary and benefits through the end of the month, but the prospect of being unemployed with a family induced a mini-crisis. I’ll be able to find a job in a few days, right? Right?! RIGHT!?!? As my breathing normalized and the initial surrealness wore off on the walk to my car, another emotion washed over me.
Getting fired felt good.
I was free. Finally. I should have left this job 8 months ago, but I was a coward, dragging my feet because things were awful but manageable. I sat at a computer all day with no creative outlet, just days full of .xlsx attachments and “Hi Team” email greetings. Did I like what I was doing? Not really. Did it pay well enough to make me compromise myself? Yes. It was a decent job that I sometimes excelled at during those rare occasions when I was engaged. For months, I convinced myself that it would get better. My manager, parents, anyone I talked to said the same thing: “Well, of course you aren’t going to be happy, but you just have to do the work!”
What an absurd concept. The thing I spend a majority of my life devoted to isn’t supposed to bring me an iota of joy? It’s not like having a job you hate makes you appreciate your free time more ( *Very Optimistic Tumblr Teen Voice* The bad makes you appreciate the good!) Having a job that eats away at your very core actually sullies your free time more. You realize how little of it you do have and often forsake it. You dread having to go back. It poisons your psyche. I was miserable from 8:30 am to 6:30 pm five days a week, and when I came home the transition from miserable to happy was slow.
I developed a habit of stopping at the gas station by my house to chug one or two Wicked Redd’s Apple Ales (don’t judge me [it’s the best value at 2 for $5 {and 8% ABV}]) to shake the rust off my personality before I walked through the door. I’m not proud to admit this; it’s pathetic. However, I was a nicer, happier person, which in turn made me a “better” husband and father. Do the ends justify the means?
If my despondency was a broken leg, I used alcohol as an ill-fitting crutch I got for a bargain at a garage sale. I got by, but never tried to fix the real issue.
I met with the vice president the week prior to discuss working remotely — I wanted to move back to Greenville, SC, from Columbia, SC, to be closer to family — and my dissatisfaction with my current roles and career path. It did not go well. For every issue I had there were just no real resolutions either in the short or long term. I got frustrated. When my wife inquired how the meeting went I described it as “two people who were dating having an argument and walking away feeling like they broke up but weren’t sure.” Oh yeah, baby! When that premonition hits!!! >>>>>
What this taught me is that Corporate America gives not one fuck about you. It doesn’t matter how long it’s been there or valuable it is, a cog gets no sympathy or funeral when it falters. It gets replaced. I know the reason I was fired was due to recurring issues regarding lack of communication but they had just given me a 20% raise at the beginning of this year for the hard work I put in during The Holiday Season (our busiest and most lucrative period). They know what I’m capable of, but it’s more about results than morale. I don’t blame them for firing me. My work had suffered, and I had detached. Psych! It’s everyone else’s fault but my own.
I’m not sure what I’ll do next. Do I try to go after another bland SEM job and fall back into the trap? Continue this cycle for the rest of my life? I hope not. Do I try to switch industries? That is certainly an option. Or do I dare to take a risk and sacrifice a bit of money for a bit of fulfillment? That sounds good in theory… but who knows. Maybe I can make something crazy work.
My buddy shared this misquotation with me by Thoreau at lunch hours before I got fired (the quote itself isn’t actually by Thoreau at all, and he really only said the first half of it): “Most men lead lives of quiet desperation and go to the grave with the song still in them.” Even though it’s a bastardized Frankenstein mash-up of a Thoreau sentence and an Oliver Wendell Holmes sentence… it actually has more impact that way. It helped me. Perchance it helps one of you out there.
In the meantime, I’ve got 4 weeks and a considerable amount of time to devote to churning out content. I no longer have any excuses to not send out pitches and finish aging drafts. The amount of Fire Tweets™ I can get off now that I don’t have to respond to client needs is going to make you vomit in your own lap.
Still, I am looking for a job so if you are a benevolent Internet Person with real world hiring power, here’s my very cute LinkedIn profile. Hit me up. Let’s build. Though, I suppose if you are, and you read this… my chances aren’t very strong.
Just trying to have fun on the Internet. Surreally oucheah. #TeamGuddaGudda

Death is always a surprise. No one expects it. Not even terminal patients think they are going to die in a day or two. In a week, maybe. But only when this particular week is the next week.
We are never ready. It is never the right time. By the time it comes, you will not have done all the things that we wanted to. The end always comes as a surprise, and it’s a tearful moment for widows and a bore for the children who don’t really understand what a funeral is (thank God).
It was no different with my father. In fact, his death was even more unexpected. He was gone at age 27. The same age that claimed the lives of several famous musicians. He was young. Way too young. My father was not a musician and neither a famous person. Cancer doesn’t pick its victims. He was gone when I was young, and I learned what a funeral was because of him. I was 8 and half, old enough to miss him for a lifetime. Had he died before, I wouldn’t have memories. I would feel no pain. But I wouldn’t have a father in my life. And I had a father.
I had a father who was both firm and fun. Someone who would tell a joke before grounding me. That way, I wouldn’t feel so bad. Someone who kissed me on the forehead before I went to sleep. A habit which I passed on to my children. Someone who forced me to support the same football team he supported, and who explained things better than my mother. Do you know what I mean? A father like that is someone to be missed.
He never told me he was going to die. Even when he was lying on a hospital bed with tubes all over him, he didn’t say a word. My father made plans for the next year even though he knew he wouldn’t be around in the next month. Next year, we would go fishing, we would travel, we would visit places we’ve never been. Next year would be an amazing year. We lived the same dream.
I believe — actually I’m sure — he thought this should bring luck. He was a superstitious man. Thinking about the future was the way he found to keep hope alive. The bastard made me laugh until the very end. He knew about it. He didn’t tell me. He didn’t see me crying.
And suddenly, the next year was over before it even started.
My mother picked me up at school and we went to the hospital. The doctor told the news with all the sensitivity that doctors lose over the years. My mother cried. She did have a tiny bit of hope. As I said before, everyone does. I felt the blow. What does it mean? Wasn’t it just a regular disease, the kind of disease doctors heal with a shot? I hated you, dad. I felt betrayed. I screamed with anger in the hospital, until I realized my father was not around to ground me. I cried.
Then, my father was once again a father to me. With a shoebox under her arm, a nurse came by to comfort me. The box was full of sealed envelopes, with sentences where the address should be. I couldn’t understand exactly what was going on. The nurse then handed me a letter. The only letter that was out of the box.
“Your dad asked me to give you this letter. He spent the whole week writing these, and he wants you read it. Be strong.” the nurse said, holding me.
The envelope read WHEN I’M GONE. I opened it.

Son,
If you’re reading this, I’m dead. I’m sorry. I knew I was going to die.
I didn’t want to tell you what was going to happen, I didn’t want to see you crying. Well, it looks like I’ve made it. I think that a man who’s about to die has the right to act a little bit selfish.
Well, as you can see, I still have a lot to teach you. After all, you don’t know crap about anything. So I wrote these letters for you. You must not open them before the right moment, OK? This is our deal.
I love you. Take care of your mom. You’re the man of the house now.
Love, dad.

PS: I didn’t write letters to your mom. She’s got my car.

He made me stop crying with his bad handwriting. Printing was not easy back then. His ugly writing, which I barely understood, made me feel calm. It made me smile. That’s how my father did things. Like the joke before the grounding.
That box became the most important thing in the world for me. I told my mother not to open it. Those letters were mine and no one else could read them. I knew all the life moments written on the envelopes by heart. But it took a while for these moments to happen. And I forgot about it.
Seven years later, after we moved to a new place, I had no idea where I put the box. I couldn’t remember it. And when we don’t remember something, we usually don’t care about it. If something goes lost in your memory, It doesn’t mean you lost it. It simply doesn’t exist anymore. It’s like change in the pockets of your trousers.
And so it happened. My teenage years and my mother’s new boyfriend triggered what my father had anticipated a long time before. My mother had several boyfriends, and I always understood it. She never married again. I don’t know why, but I like to believe that my father had been the love of her life. This boyfriend, however, was worthless. I thought she was humiliating herself by dating him. He had no respect for her. She deserved something a lot better than a guy she met at a bar.
I still remember the slap she gave me after I pronounced the word “bar”. I’ll admit that I deserved it. I learned that over the years. At the time, when my skin was still burning from the slap, I remembered the box and the letters. I remembered a specific letter, which read “WHEN YOU HAVE THE WORST FIGHT EVER WITH YOUR MOM”.
I ransacked my bedroom looking for it, which earned me another slap in the face. I found the box inside a suitcase lying on top of the wardrobe. The limbo. I looked through the letters, and realized that I had forgotten to open WHEN YOU HAVE YOUR FIRST KISS. I hated myself for doing that, and I decided that would be the next letter I’d open. WHEN YOU LOSE YOUR VIRGINITY came right next in the pack, a letter I was hoping to open really soon. Eventually I found what I was looking for.

Now apologize to her.
I don’t know why you’re fighting and I don’t know who’s right. But I know your mother. So a humble apology is the best way to get over this. I’m talking about a down-on-your-knees apology.
She’s your mother, kid. She loves you more than anything in this world. Do you know that she went through natural birth because someone told her that it would be the best for you? Have you ever seen a woman giving birth? Do you need a bigger proof of love than that?
Apologize. She’ll forgive you.
Love, dad.

My father was not a great writer, he was just a bank clerk. But his words had a great impact on me. They were words that carried more wisdom than all of my 15 years of age at the time. (That wasn’t very hard to achieve, though).
I rushed to my mother’s room and opened the door. I was crying when she turned her head to look me in the eyes. She was also crying. I don’t remember what she yelled at me. Probably something like “What do you want?” What I do remember is that I walked towards her holding the letter my father wrote. I held her in my arms, while my hands crumpled the old paper. She hugged me, and we both stood in silence.
My father’s letter made her laugh a few minutes later. We made peace and talked a little about him. She told me about some of his most eccentric habits, such as eating salami with strawberries. Somehow, I felt he was sitting right next to us. Me, my mother and a piece of my father, a piece he left for us, on a piece of paper. It felt good.
It didn’t take long before I read WHEN YOU LOSE YOUR VIRGINITY

Congratulations, son.
Don’t worry, it gets better with time. It always sucks the first time. Mine happened with an ugly woman…who was also a prostitute.
My biggest fear is that you’d ask your mother what virginity is after reading what’s on the letter. Or even worse, reading what I just wrote without knowing what jerking off is (you know what it is, right?). But that’s none of my business.
Love, dad.

My father followed me through my entire life. He was with me, even though he was not near me. His words did what no one else could: they gave me strength to overcome countless challenging moments in my life. He would always find a way to put a smile on my face when things looked grim, or clear my mind during those angry moments.
WHEN YOU GET MARRIED made me feel very emotional. But not so much as WHEN YOU BECOME A FATHER.

Now you’ll understand what real love is, son. You’ll realize how much you love her, but real love is something you’ll feel for this little thing over there. I don’t know if it’s a boy or a girl. I’m just a corpse, I’m not a fortune teller.
Have fun. It’s a great thing. Time is gonna fly now, so make sure you’ll be around. Never miss a moment, they never come back. Change diapers, bathe the baby, be a role model to this child. I think you have what it takes to be an amazing father, just like me.

The most painful letter I read in my entire life was also the shortest letter my father wrote. While he wrote those four words, I believe he suffered just as much as I did living through that moment. It took a while, but eventually I had to open WHEN YOUR MOTHER IS GONE.

She is mine now.

A joke. A sad clown hiding his sadness with a smile on his makeup. It was the only letter that didn’t make me smile, but I could see the reason.
I always kept the deal I had made with my father. I never read letters before their time. With the exception of WHEN YOU REALIZE YOU’RE GAY. Since I never thought I’d have to open this one, I decided to read it. It was one of the funniest letters, by the way.

What can I say? I’m glad I’m dead.
Now, all joking aside, being half-dead made me realize that we care too much about things that don’t matter much. Do you think that changes anything, son?
Don’t be silly. Be happy.

I would always wait for the next moment, the next letter. The next lesson my father would teach me. It’s amazing what a 27 year old man can teach to an 85 year old senior like me.
Now that I am lying on a hospital bed, with tubes in my nose and my throat thanks to this damn cancer, I run my fingers on the faded paper of the only letter I didn’t open. The sentence WHEN YOUR TIME COMES is barely visible on the envelope.
I don’t want to open it. I’m scared. I don’t want to believe that my time is near. It’s a matter of hope, you know? No one believes they’re gonna die.
I take a deep breath, opening the envelope.

Hello, son. I hope you’re an old man now.
You know, this letter was the easiest to write, and the first I wrote. It was the letter that set me free from the pain of losing you. I think your mind becomes clearer when you’re this close to the end. It’s easier to talk about it.
In my last days here I thought about the life I had. I had a brief life, but a very happy one. I was your father and the husband of your mother. What else could I ask for? It gave me peace of mind. Now you do the same.
My advice for you: you don’t have to be afraid
PS: I miss you
Just figuring the best way to be you.
Hi! Today seems like a good day to answer some frequently asked questions.
Q: Are you marking any significant anniversaries today?
A: Yes, yes I am! Today is the second anniversary of Steve’s death.
Q: Who is Steve?
A: Steve was my husband uh DOI.
Q: Urm, now I feel bad for not knowing that.
A: It’s fine. At the two year point I find myself having to make more and more choices about whether or not I immediately blurt out HEYDIDYOUKNOWI’MAWIDOWTHAT’SMYFUNFACT!!!!!!! People in my life are less likely to have been around then and more likely to need to be briefed on this backstory. This is extremely annoying because after two years, I still don’t have a better way to relate this information than all caps-no spaces shouting.
But beneath that, it’s actually a super awesome thing, because it means that my world has gotten so much bigger in these two years. I’ve met a lot of people, and done a lot of things that I maybe only mildly imagined doing before.
Q: Dude, that sort of makes it sound like you’re glad Steve died.
A: I’m not, and that’s kind of a dick thing to say.
Q: I’M SORRY, I’M SORRY, I’M SORRY!
A: Ha ha, SIKE! I’m just fucking with you. I’m not glad Steve died, not even a little. He has missed SO MUCH COOL SHIT. He missed the opening with Cuba, which he would have been really stoked about. He’s missing an equality revolution in spaces around gender and sexual identity, race, police power, capital, and class. He’s missing whatever they’re doing with Hine over at Eastern Market. He’s missing our cat Claudia’s turbulent adolescence. He’s missing BERNIE SANDERS ELIZABETH WARRREN AND LAWRENCE LESSIG ‘NUFF SAID.
Also, I’m missing him. Obviously. A lot. BUT: I have a cousin who’s also a widow, and she told my sister that she’s not sure if she’d bring her husband back. Which sounds TOTALLY CRAZY to other people, BUT: When you experience a loss like this, you get to see a really wild new amount of life. Suddenly the range of the type of sad you can feel, to the type of happy you can feel, is busted open. The spectrum from happy to sad isn’t a foot wide anymore — it’s as far as your arms can stretch and then to the edges of the room and then up the block and over into the next neighborhood.
So I am not happy that Steve died. But I am happy a lot of the time, which I didn’t really anticipate on this day two years ago.
Q: What happened on this day two years ago?
A: Good question! While many people know that I am a widow, probably not a ton know what went down. Pretty much no one knows exactly what went down, because I don’t even know what happened.
What I do know is that for a couple of weeks, Steve had what we thought was a summer cold. Some coughing, some sneezing. Then he started a new job, and felt like that stress was compounding the illness — but it didn’t occur to either of us that this was a thing that was more than just something passing. He certainly didn’t think it was worth taking a sick day during his first week of work.
That Friday he came home from work REALLY REALLY sick. He’d barely been able to drive. I made him get up off the couch and go to an urgent care. The doctor there prescribed him an antibiotic and said “it’s either the flu or it’s not, so this will either work or it won’t.” We went to CVS and got the scrip filled right as they were closing. I had to pull a cry face to get them to fill it, and when I got back to the car I was pretty proud of myself for badgering them into doing it — I told Steve that “bitches get shit done.” Tina Fey went on to steal this line from me. (Right? I’m pretty sure that’s how this went down, but my memory isn’t great.)
Steve didn’t sleep very well that night. Around 5 a.m. he couldn’t sleep, so we woke up and watched some 30 Rock together. (The degree to which Tina Fey figures into this story is only being revealed to me now, two years later.) I went back to sleep. Around 9 a.m. I made my way up to Eastern Market to get groceries, and when I got back, Steve came down the stairs, carrying a bunch of his sick dude things — probably some Kleenexes, his thermometer, a seltzer can. I joked about him doing a Rachael Ray carry. Then he started coughing.
I don’t remember the sequence of events very well. He was sitting on the couch at one point and I encouraged him to cough it up, whatever it was. At one point he went into the kitchen and looked out the glass door to the patio, and said “Oh fuck.”
He started coughing up blood. I went to get him a bowl to cough into, and then said “that’s it, I’m calling 911.” And then he collapsed onto his knees, and fell on the ground.
The 911 operator wasn’t super helpful. I kept asking if I should do CPR and she kept asking if he was responsive, if he was breathing. I was surprised by how hard it was to tell. At one point I pulled on his ear to see if he would respond. I turned him on his side and tried to clear his airway. I cajoled the 911 operator, but weirdly, in the moment, I was really focused on being polite. Like, using a ton of please and thank you, as if that would make the fire truck get up Florida Avenue faster. Finally, after a couple of minutes, I heard the sirens and the operator said to me “well, let me just make sure that’s for you.” Because, Welcome to Washington, D.C., District Slogan: Those Sirens Might Not Be For You.
The EMTs cut off his shirt and intubated him, but they didn’t shock him. They used a machine to tell them whether or not to do it, and the machine said “don’t.” I don’t know if it was “don’t bother” or “you don’t need to.” I don’t know if they knew this wasn’t going to end well or not. They asked me how old he was, which I assume was to gauge whether to keep working or not.
Once we were in the ambulance, I asked where we were going and one of the EMTs just sort of nodded “no” to me, and indicated I should hold on. It felt like we sat there for a long time, trying to figure out what was happening. I struggled to call my parents with my cellphone — which was, ironically a recurring nightmare for me. That something was happening to Steve and I’d have to dial 911 and I wouldn’t be able to unlock my phone or dial the right number. Eventually I got my dad, who was in North Carolina, and he sent my sister over, who luckily was already down in the city helping a friend move.
Then I had to call Steve’s parents, which was horrible. Steve’s mom was excited to hear from me, since on their end, it was just a normal Saturday morning. And I had to say, no, turn down, your son’s in the back of an ambulance and the EMT just gave me a “no” nod.
Eventually we took off for Howard University Hospital, which was the closest ER. They took me into a tiny little room that wasn’t square, so all of the furniture was crammed in at weird angles. A chaplain came in and said some very anatomically specific prayers, which even as they were cutting Steve open and trying to resuscitate his heart directly, I thought was funny. My sister Sarah showed up, and they called a Catholic chaplain so he could give Steve last rites. I don’t know how the last rites went, but in terms of dealing with the non-dying, that guy was fucking terrible. I wish I could remember his name so I could pan him on Yelp.
Doctors would come in pretty frequently to update me, but only one or two of those times were they hopeful. Apparently his heart caught a couple of times, but it never stayed working. When the doctor came in to tell me that they’d declared a time of death, I made him tell it to Steve’s parents on the phone.
Sarah and I saw him at least twice, once while they were still working on him, and once after they’d cleaned him up. As they led me out of the ER, I told the nurse that I was conflicted about whether or not I should take a photo of his body. She told me I’d see him again, at the funeral, and that I should just focus on sleeping and eating. And then I said “I can’t believe it, he was such a good husband.”
And she said, “Yeah, but he did a shitty thing today.”
And that was the first time I laughed after Steve died.
Ultimately what seems to have happened is that an infection developed in his heart. This is probably related to the surgery he’d had around Christmas, to repair an aneurysm in a valve in his heart. I don’t have better clarity than this, and to some extent, the facts I did dig up, I’ve forgotten. It’s impossible to overstate what a hit your memory takes when you lose someone. It’s also impossible to overstate what a bureaucratic clusterfuck it is. GUYS, I CAN’T STRESS THIS ENOUGH: IF YOU SHARE A PHONE PLAN WITH SOMEONE, MAKE SURE EVERYONE’S AN AUTHORIZED USER.
Q: Um damn, I’m like, a little overwhelmed now.
A: Yeah, me too. I’ve been that way for two years. So if you sent me an email and I didn’t respond to it, that’s what happened. I couldn’t respond to your query about a story pitch because my husband coughed to death.
Q: So how are you doing in general?
A: I mean, like I keep saying, it’s fine. I realized today that I’d never much thought about what would happen after two years. After one year, I thought I might try to date (and in fact I tried earlier than that, and it was COMICALLY BAD). In year two I thought I might be in a good enough head space to make a career transition (also: fail).
But now, with no more map — with truly no expectation that getting this far was a real possibility, I feel like I’m starting to be strong enough to do the work to make those sorts of things happen. I have the beginnings of a plan and a little bit of vision about how to pursue the kind of creative community I want to be part of, and the resources to do that, even if it doesn’t make any money. Even though it’s frightening, I feel like I’m getting closer to being able to hand someone my soppy bruised tomato of a heart. If they cup their hands and treat it with gentle little kitten paws, I think I might be ok.
One thing is for sure — I used to fucking HATE IT when people asked me, with that welling sincerity in their eyes, “but how ARE you?” I probably don’t actually hate it any less, but it happens less now.
Q: What have you learned over the past two years?
A: Hoo boy. HOO BOY. HUUUUUOOOOOOOHHHHHHH BOOOOOOOOOY.
Q: It sort of seems like you’re stalling, tbh.
A: Busted. I think about that question a lot. I would love to unequivocally be like “I am so much more empathetic now, and I have grand insights into the universe!”
But that’s not really the case. I haven’t really had a magnificent realization about the necessity of doing what you love, or cutting the bullshit. For those of you who don’t know me, bullshit is my number one stock-in-trade. If I have had anything like a satori, I haven’t acted on it.
Probably the biggest finding of the past two years for me is that being comfortable being uncomfortable is a very effective way to be a human.
I am constantly trying to teach myself to watch my feelings as they pass through me, rather than chasing them away with Manhattans or Ambien or Netflix. I often fail at this. I am trying harder to engage with people as they are — not being afraid of strangers, asking better questions, really listening to the answers, not being afraid to go to a second location, being less judgmental.
Basically, I’m trying to have an open heart. I’ve learned that it’s really hard to do, but I think it’s probably the Step 1 of any attempt to really be alive, following something like this.
Q: I’ve noticed that throughout this FAQ you’ve used two spaces after a period.
A: Yeah, I’m not a fucking ANIMAL.
All my love,
Rachel
Producer @morningedition for @NPRNew rachelmendlward.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences
We’re on a journey together, you and me. We’ve come a long way, but design for the web is still in its adolescence. In the early aughts we learned to build websites without tables, then we learned to use data to make decisions. Emotion never played a role in driving page views, purchases or video plays. We just needed to get people from point A to point B. People live their entire lives online now, we’re embarking on a new frontier as designers; we’re designing frameworks for people to exist online — a lot like they do offline.
I first started to notice the disconnect between design and how people actually live after my mom died. Every Mother’s Day my inbox filled with messages suggesting gifts for my dead mom. It used to sting, especially when I worked at a greeting card company and all 10 of my test accounts would be bombarded with reminders she was gone. I felt utterly alone in those moments, but somewhere a marketer was watching open rates and conversions go up and to the right. They weren’t thinking about me, and it’s not personal, they’re making something for the majority of people — people whose moms don’t happen to be dead. Almost a decade later I’m pretty used to it, but I know even the most benign design can be loaded with risk.
When I worked in travel we ran the risk of sending people promotions based on trips they had booked for funerals. When I worked in insurance people most commonly accessed their policy documents after experiencing an accident. In one user test a woman was shown her credit score in an effort to provide more helpful context about how her auto policy rate was calculated. Confronted with this number she broke down in tears, the score triggered memories of a terrible hospitalization that had caused her family financial crisis. Even filing your taxes can be anxiety inducing if you’re down to the wire and can’t make sense of the software. People completing seemingly straightforward tasks do so in a variety of contexts and life circumstances. Humanity can be sad, complicated and messy. We don’t stop being human when we go online.Sometimes even when you’re trying to make something with the best intentions, something can go terribly wrong. Sometimes the very tools you create to protect people cause harm. What can we do?
For years designers have approached software as though it were neutral: here’s a set of options, now complete a task. In reality, people interact with software like it’s a human. As designers, we can shift our approach to thinking about how people might feel using our products much like we would think about having a conversation with another person. The ability to handle relationships and be aware of emotions is called emotional intelligence, and it’s what’s often missing in software design today.
Emotional intelligence is defined with five characteristics:

The difficult thing about “know thyself” as it applies to software, is that software doesn’t have feelings. Ultimately what’s expressed to a person using software is either explicit from a designer when we have opinions and try to persuade, or implicitly from how the interaction makes the person feel.For example, on Facebook, we want to be respectful guardians of people’s data, so in ad settings we want people to declare intent about how they want to be advertised to. This is in contrast to presenting an array of every possible option which a person may never take action on. We ask how you want to see ads: “Do you want to see ads based on your behavior?” This is how we designed empowerment: we gave people the tools to make an informed choice, by not muddying the message with all of the more granular options within that choice.
It’s easy for designers to be aware of our opinions and design interactions that support the outcomes we want. Being aware of how non-choices affect an experience is much more challenging. Emotions spread. Humans mirror. If a people perceive an interface as expressing an emotion, they are likely to also feel that emotion. Whether designers intend to or not, we’re building relationships. Imagine the relationship you might have with a piece of government software as if it were a person. How do we act and feel in relationships? Things can escalate quickly. An interaction could be just the latest in a series of slights, it’s like the app just left a wet towel on the floor or forgot to take out the trash. You’re screaming in your head “I can’t believe it’s doing this to me!” Maybe it’s preventing you from doing something really important, like renewing your license. This has a real effect on our bodies. A universal trigger for anger is a sense of endangerment, which can be signaled not just with physical threat, but more often symbolic threats: being treated unjustly, or being insulted and demeaned. This creates an energy surge in our body which lasts several minutes, but the effects of which can last much longer.
The risk with the neutrality of software is that we may be able to understand every possible logical outcome in a situation (though often we don’t) but we’re unable to assign values to those outcomes. This is especially true with binary systems: a person completes a task or they don’t. This sounds neutral, when in fact the consequences of not completing the task could range from inconvenient to devastating. This lack of awareness is where we get into trouble and sometimes unintentionally do harm. Reason without feeling is blind.
What is the cost of a decision that harms a few thousand people compared to a decision that irritates millions? Ellen Pao talks about problems of scale to The Washington Post “If mistakes are made 0.01 percent of the time, that could mean tens of thousands of mistakes.”So much of an emotional message is nonverbal, and a computer can’t pick up those cues. Designers can’t see people’s expressions or body language, but we can try to understand reactions by paying very careful attention to what people do, particularly in aggregate.Numbers often don’t mean what we think they do, they tell us the what but not the why. Metrics are a great way to come up with assumptions to be challenged, but don’t say a lot without context. If someone is spending more time in a product, is it because the product is great or because the person can’t find what they need?A friend of mine used a feature on a professional networking site that scraped her address book for contacts. She didn’t know the service would automatically connect her to every person in her inbox, an inbox that spans a decade. She was suddenly connected to a person she never wanted to speak to again. Somewhere in a data warehouse, the volume of connections on this service appears to be going up, which superficially seems good. However, the quality of those connections is diminishing. How many of these people actually want to be connected? How many are actually going to return to the site because they were connected to someone they exchanged an email with 3 years ago? That number going up isn’t very meaningful.

Designers need their users’ motivations to inform their own. The best way to understand motivation is to change perspective. Unfortunately, this isn’t always easy, and I had to learn the hard way. After college, as one does when adult problems and a desk job catch up to you, I gained a lot of weight — over a hundred pounds, which I later lost. I learned very quickly what it meant to live in a world not designed for me. Things most people take for granted are ordeals: seat belts on airplanes, buying functional workout clothes, or really any clothes. The first time I walked into a store and realized they didn’t carry my size I felt a lot of things. I felt like the store was actively hostile. I felt like the store was rejecting me and was saying another type of body was better than mine.
I do not recommend trying this.Our perspectives can also be informed by the people we spend time with. If a team is diverse, more perspectives are brought to the table, products have fewer blind spots and designers create more things people actually need. Think about five people you know with wildly different backgrounds and life circumstances, how would they feel using different products?
A little humility can go a long way. Designers are not the users of their products. Right as designers were learning about web standards, popular design offered the wisdom “scratch your own itch.” This works well for solving one specific problem, but ignores all other problems. Designers can’t assume everyone wants what we’re offering. People don’t always use things in the way we expect, only research can tell us what’s really going on.
For a while after my mom died, every birthday and Christmas my Stepdad would get me a Bath & Body Works gift card. His reasoning was that my mom loved Bath & Body Works, so I probably would to. I hate Bath & Body Works. His intentions were sweet and sincere, but every time I got one of those gift cards I felt like he didn’t know me. Every time I design something new I ask myself if I am giving someone Bath & Body Works gift cards.
Good content strategy is a great tool for communicating with an intentional tone. What’s the product’s voice? If the design were a person, how should it be perceived? Friend? Teacher? Trusted advisor? Sham-wow spokesperson? What kind of reaction could this voice elicit when someone is experiencing the product in the worst case scenario?Let’s be honest about priorities. The definition of priority is “a thing that is regarded as more important than another.” By prioritizing one thing, we are inherently deprioritizing something else, do I know what I’m deprioritizing? Eric Meyer says when you call something an edge case, you’re really just defining the limits of what you care about; he calls them stress cases. (He would also like to give credit for paraphrasing Evan Henſleigh.) In December Facebook’s Year in Review product suggested Eric should relive a “great” year, resurfacing a post about his daughter’s death. We invited him to come speak to us candidly about his experiences. Generously, he told us the reason we don’t see planes falling from the sky is because there’s 60 years of air crash data to draw on when designing planes.
This is uncharted territory, and mistakes are going to be made. When designers make mistakes we have to take responsibility to move forward. An honest process has enough time to test assumptions, and to be wrong and iterate on those assumptions. Good research will bring as many new questions as it does answer. Sometimes a product works great in carefully controlled tests, but won’t be stressed until wide release.

Without mindfulness, products might only be rude, but they might also affect someone’s health, their support systems, or their very livelihood. A good friend once told me that to be an adult is to be aware. It’s time for design to become an adult. As product and service design collide, designers are responsible for understanding every ripple of our work.
Nurture the relationships your products are creating as though they were happening in the physical world, and give without expecting anything in return. We have a saying at Facebook, this journey is 1% finished. No one can ever be fully aware, but designers have to be open to growth and the possibility we’re wrong. Less up and to the right, more up and to the heart.
Many thanks to Jonathon Colman, Lisa Sy, Hannah Fletcher and Ed Salvana for their feedback on my drafts.
I make creepy comics and toys, and design @ Facebook.
Stories from designers at Facebook offices across the world

A little over a year ago, I moved to London and as part of the move, I sold my car. This was a big deal for me as a native of LA, where car ownership is celebrated, no matter how bad the traffic gets. I owned a 2004 Toyota 4Runner with 140k miles (not all VCs fly in private jets to work). I am not a “car person,” but I loved my car because it almost never broke down in our ten years together. But, the move meant it had to go, and so it was sold for next-to-nothing to a really nice dad with two kids.
While I may have been sad to see my car go, I wasn’t concerned about being car-less because — when not on strike — public transportation is pretty good in Europe, and Uber is nearly ubiquitous in major cities. I knew Uber was more expensive in London, but everything was more expensive in London and I had factored that into my decision to move in the first place.
What I didn’t expect was that depending on Uber (UberX specifically) would actually be cheaper than owning and driving a car. Much cheaper. Yes, the company says this, but I didn’t think it was realistic yet.
Well, it is. At least for me.
I’ve been back in SF for a couple of months and have been wondering if I should buy a car. So, I compared my transportation expenses over the past two years. There are some obvious caveats, but here’s a quick break-down:
Car (August 2013-August 2014)
Apartment Parking Space: $350/month x 12 months = $4,200 [1]
Gas: 23 gallons x $3.75/gallon = $86.25, $86.25 x 52 weeks = $4,485 [2]
Insurance: $133 x 12 months = $1,596 [3]
That’s $10,281/year right there for just the basics, not factoring in normal servicing, repairs, car washes, other parking, tolls or tickets (and there were tickets). And of course, that’s not including the amortized cost for the purchase of the car in the first place. It’s just the bare annual minimum.
This also doesn’t include the additional Uber, taxi or public transportation fares I had throughout the year when I wasn’t driving — for example, after drinks or when traveling in other cities.
Uber (August 2014-August 2015)
Total cost: $4,655.79
That’s a dramatic difference in cost. But to be fair, I had to rent a car 3–4 times in the last year for an additional $1k or so combined. And of course, like the year before, this doesn’t factor in public transportation costs, etc.
Now obviously there are some significant caveats to my comparison. My cities and schedule changed in this time period (though the Uber-only year includes three months in SF). I could have driven a much more fuel efficient vehicle, taken public transportation down south to Sand Hill more often, found cheaper parking (though I’m not actually sure that would have been possible in SF), etc. This is not an exact science.
But if anything, I was traveling more miles in Europe and riding with Uber more frequently because it was dependable and familiar to me.
And that brings me to the part of the comparison that can’t be quantified: peace of mind. Owning a car — particularly in a city — can be stressful. There’s no fewer than a dozen startups in San Francisco trying to fix just the parking hassle (on-demand valets! driveway-share marketplaces! etc). Not having to deal with a car is a luxury — a cheaper one for me. Even when I commute down the peninsula, the combination of a train and Uber for last mile reach is vastly preferable to the hell that is the 101.
Uber has reached such high city density, geographic ubiquity and price diversity that it can truly be an economical replacement for car ownership for some people. There are dozens of factors that make the trade-off right for me, and that’s obviously not the case for everyone, everywhere (families are an obvious example, though Uber appears to be working on that). But it will increasingly be the right choice for more people as the company reaches even greater density and rolls out new services.
It’s worth doing the math for yourself.
***
[1] Apartment parking isn’t cheap in SF, I believe this is true in other condensed cities as well.
[2] The 2004 Toyota 4Runner has a 23 gallon tank with roughly 15–17 mile fuel efficiency. Pretty bad, but remember, this was an old car. My commute from home to KP in Menlo Park was 70 miles round trip and I’d go down to the office 2–3 times a week. The rest of the time I was commuting around the city or out of town on the weekends. I filled up my tank roughly every week and looking at a historical almanac for SF gas prices that year, $3.75/gallon seems about the average. San Francisco has the most expensive gas in California.
[3] My car insurance was $1,600/year, it probably would have been slightly less if I had a newer car.
[Disclosure: I’m an investor in Uber like literally thousands of other people. I believe it’s good business to invest in products and companies you love, if you can.]

Previously: Investment Partner at Kleiner Perkins, built products for people @Square & @Google. I'm told I talk fast.
How work, business and society face massive, technology-driven change. Curated by Tim O’Reilly, Steven Levy and Lauren Smiley, in conjunction with the Next: Economy Summit coming to San Francisco in November.
Whether on an app screen, a web browser, or a wearable watch face, design is one of the most important drivers of consumer engagement. From flat design to Material design, I analysed what trends have evolved, and share a few of my insights with you — what are these trends? Why are they beneficial to the user? And how are they created?
Let’s look at how flat design and Material design came into play and evolved to the trends we see today.
Instead of incorporating a wide array of gradients and shadows, shifting to a ‘flat design’ creates a lighter aesthetic in the app. This means using negative space — instead of gradients, shadows, etc. — can create a simpler interface, focusing only on having core information and removing design elements that are not productive as itself and to the user flow.
Lighter design removes distraction to help guide the user’s eye to meaningful content on the screen, enabling easier navigation while also providing a sleek, modern aesthetic to the brand itself.
Reducing the number of fonts on a screen can reveal the power of typography. Instead of using different typeface and leveraging different characteristics — e.g. italics, bold, semi-bold — and different font sizes can better differentiate discrete areas of content.
Embracing a singular typeface across an entire app drives consistency not only for branding, but also across channels — e.g. app, mobile site, website — thus optimising the mobile elements across the omnichannel experience. Also, users prefer the simplicity of having one typeface to scroll through in identifying relevant content.
While previously lines and dividers were used to clearly delineate specific sections or categories within a screen, adding these elements can result in dense, crowded interfaces. Straying away from lines, interfaces which leverage clustered blocks of content separated by spaces have the advantage of freeing up that space and establishing a clean look.
The removal of explicit lines and dividers provides a modern look that focuses on functionality; for example, images and/or fonts can be bigger, providing visual clarity and improved ease of use. Leveraging space instead of drawing lines helps to define different sections in a non-obtrusive manner.
As users’ preferences shift toward a simpler interface, usage of big fonts and striking colors get more common to make a certain data the center of focus. Highlighted data can vary according to target customers.
Leveraging increased font size and/or a pop of color draws the users’ attention to a particular area of the screen — without an obtrusive, heavy-handed push or command to do so. As a result, users can access information more quickly, providing an easier navigation and information-gathering experience.
Micro-interactions are small visual enhancements (for example — an animation, a sound etc.) that occur around a use case. These scenarios may include completing a transaction, favoriting an item, or prompting a pop-up message. These interactions are subtle, but they differentiate the product by pointing to the attention the right element.
These micro-interactions can be leveraged as a signal to prompt the user while accomplishing a task — e.g. adjusting a setting — creating a small piece of content like a pop-up message. Apps which have well-done micro-interactions considered easier, more fun, and more engaging by their users.
The usage of simpler color schemes became a trend after the introduction of flat design in 2013, which embraces clarity and simplicity. As a result, designers and users alike prefer the usage of smaller number of colors, aiming for a clean look.
Usage of color is essential in creating a certain mood, guiding the user’s area of focus, and communicating a brand. By using fewer colors, the brand identity can be reflected more clearly. In addition, users may prefer this aesthetic as it removes the distraction that too many colors can cause, and it better highlights key features, improving navigation through the app’s flow.
Previously, interfaces were centered around the principle of skeumorphism, a design principle that takes cues from original structures or objects (for example, digital calendar resembling a paper desk calendar, 3D ‘depth’ on app icons, the shutter click sound of a mobile phone). Now that flat design has shifted away from this principle, it opens up the opportunity to create depth in new ways. Primarily, using layers helps create this feeling of depth and dimension, creating a more ‘tangible’ experience.
An implication of flat design was the risk of being ‘too flat’ — with so much subtlety, how can the user navigate and engage, given their conditioning to a 3D physical (and previously digital) world? Layers provide the ability to show one item is on top of another by taking full advantage of the z-axis. Layering and increasing depth helps identify the relationship between different items, and draws attention to certain items.
Ghost buttons are transparent buttons, having no color fill. Their borders are very thin-lined, and the shape itself is basic — such as a rectangular or squared, with right angle or softened edges. Text in these buttons are simple and minimal.
These subtle buttons can grab the user’s attention while still seeming clean, trendy, and unobtrusive. It also allows for there to be a hierarchy of buttons on the screen — if there are different buttons on the screen — if there are different buttons in the same page, they may be designed and placed with prioritisation (e.g. ghost buttons for optional or intermediate steps). In some cases for material design, subtle shadows are used to help users perceive that hierarchy.
With integration of gyroscopes and motion sensors, consumer devices are able to detect movement. With this, interaction between user and the device moves beyond the click and extends real life gestures to the screen.
Users are intuitive about gestures. When asked how to delete an item, users tried to move the item out of the screen regardless of age, sex and gender. Enhances user experience with less taps and more scrolling, applications become more interactive by positioning the screen more than just a touch target.
Through software innovation, designers now have the ability to take advantage of controlling movement with their style sheets. Motion-based design elements can be seen in a variety of forms, including transitions, animations and even on texture to mimic 3D depth. The use of motions within the design helps users to engage with and internalise content, differentiating that element or data/object from others to highlight its importance.
Motions can draw user’s attention to a specific area — or help to distract from it. By showing a visual response, it can increase engagement, delighting the user with a ‘wow’ factor.
Instead of navigating through multiple pages to complete a single transaction, a single screen can include those intermediate steps and reduce the time and effort spent in app. For example, a form can automatically open or highlight the subsequent input area when the user completes the previous field.
Mobile users prefer to complete their transactions in an app easily and quickly while they are on-the-go. Designing the experience of the applications according to this insight minimizes the effort for the user and can increase the rate of conversion and/or frequency of app opens.
Design standards is the process of setting the visual language at the beginning of the project by determining standards such as colors, icons and global padding.
Setting the standards of the design helps to create consistency within the application and between different platforms. It minimizes possible errors while bringing the project into life and makes it easier to make modifications in the future.
A prototype is a preliminary or early working version of a product. The usage of prototypes can provide valuable insights into the functionality of design, highlighting potential changes needed in order to enhance the user experience without costing a major loss in designer time and effort.
By creating these low-cost ‘experiments’, prototyping can clarify the key components of the project, including the feature scope and requirements. It leaves essential time and resources to learn from the experiment and iterate on the product in an insight-driven process.
UX / Visual Designer at Monitise. Design Process Strategist. Public Speaker.
a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

I know he’s got at least some money, because he’s buying Grey Goose. People with money don’t buy cheap vodka, or cheap rum, or cheap whiskey. They invest in the good stuff, like Grey Goose. Three bottles of it.
His suit radiates “expensive”, the kind of expensive that involves several tailors and a high-end store in Manhattan. We aren’t in Manhattan, though. We’re in a fluorescent-lit Ralph’s in a suburban city that sleeps from 10 PM to 6 AM. Men who belong in Manhattan look out of place here.
“How are you doing tonight, sir?” The woman working the register asks pleasantly enough. My eyes are fixated on her hands, veins prominent through tired skin, as they scan bottle after bottle. His own fingers drum on the register wall impatiently. A gold band catches lights and gleams from his ring finger.
“Fine. Now, if you wouldn’t mind speeding up this damn process, I’ve got places to be.” He snaps, taking a black leather wallet out of his jacket pocket, a shiny credit card protruding from the top. It looks like it’s made of silver. He holds it gingerly between his index finger and middle finger, and now that his hands are busy, he begins tapping his foot on the linoleum. There is a faint, distinct rhythm, but I can’t place where I’ve heard it before.
“Yes, of course. I’m sorry.” She says softly, taken aback. The last of the bottles, a handle of Jack Daniel’s, rolls its way to the end of the conveyor belt. “I need your identification, please.”
The man heaves an audible sigh. “My ID… Do I appear to be someone underage? Excuse me, ma’am, for finding my way into your line. I thought cashiers were more competent than this.” He’s irritated, and I can see the blood rising from his neck to his temples. The only thing I can think of is the epinephrine that is coursing through his system, raising his heart rate and accelerating his breathing.
“It’s just store policy, sir,” her voice is small. She does not combat him once.
He pulls out his wallet again and nearly shoves his driver’s license in her face. “This is ridiculous,” he mutters.
The cashier is silent as she takes his credit card and slides it through the machine. She holds it in her left hand like it’s an explosive, ready to implode at the slightest, misguided touch. When the computer signifies that the transaction is complete and the receipt finally prints, he exhales loudly. He leaves the line with four bags of alcohol. I wonder how long those bottles will last him.
I shuffle my feet forward, in awe of the man’s audacity to be so outwardly rude. I glance up, noticing the cashier’s face for the first time. Her brown eyes look heavy, and there is discoloration around her neck, barely visible above the collar of the uniform polo. An amalgamation of black and blue and yellow mix together, in vague forms of fingerprints, marring the translucence of her skin. Time slows down and I swear I can see the fibrin forming the intricate meshwork to mend the broken capillaries. I should be more shocked by this sight. I should not be standing here complacent.
“How are you today, ma’am?” She asks, tone betraying defeat, as I watch her put the few cans of soup into a grocery bag. There’s a cut on the side of her right hand that has been hastily and poorly covered by a flimsy band aid that I did not see before. The wound appears to be somewhat old, darkened by days of healing. Thrombin to fibrinogen to fibrin. I wonder how often her body must endure this cycle of blood-clotting.
“Fine, thank you,” I say distractedly. Maybe it is because my mind is still on the Manhattan man, or because I am too caught up in breaking down biological reactions, or because I don’t want to think about the possibility of abuse, but I don’t ask “How are you” in return. The synapse of that thought is dead before it even had a chance to come to the forefront of my mind.
I pay for my groceries with old, crumpled bills and leave hurriedly with a bag in each hand. As soon as I’m out the door it dawns on me that I didn’t reciprocate the question. I slow down my pace and with each step, out the door, onto the pavement, then the asphalt, I feel strange. I didn’t bother to look at her name tag. I didn’t ask how she was... I didn’t ask how she was.
How many customers had she seen, but they had not seen her? How many days can we go through without taking the time to leave our own busy thoughts and comfort behind and extend basic courtesy to one another? Who was I but just another person who left that woman’s presence without acknowledging that she was worthy of a mere question? Perhaps that “How are you” was what she desperately needed in that moment, to have a voice, to feel valued, to feel human, to know that someone cares. I am no better than the man before me who had completely disrespected her. In a sense, I am worse; I have no alcohol or expensive suit to use as excuses, only my own innate selfishness and apathy.
The car is still parked as I sit in the driver’s seat, staring out the windshield at nothing in particular. Looking down at my own hands, I realize in my near 19 years of existence that they have not seen even half the scope of human suffering that is undeniably present in this world. I close them into fists and feel weak.
DNA cannot code for compassion. There is an underlying source of empathy, burying itself in the microscopic spaces between the sequences of A’s and T’s and C’s and G’s, that does not come from myself. I pray that the man in the suit finds wholeness in something far more lasting than the satisfaction of an empty bottle. I pray that the cashier is heard and finds solace in a source of comfort far greater than anything any human could ever provide. I pray that I may become someone who asks how others are doing before they even have the opportunity to ask me.
Thrombin to fibrinogen to fibrin. Mistake to consequence to learning.
These are the ways we heal and grow.
constantly seeking and yearning.
Here there is hope, humor, and help as you deepen your connection to others, yourself, and to your work.
70 years ago, there was no visual technology to broadcast the aftermath of the a-bomb dropped just 3 days before in Hiroshima. On August 9th 1945 at 11.02am, survivors like Shigemi Fukahori — aged 14 at the time — had no idea that they were also victims of a nuclear weapon dropped by a US B-29 plane.
“When I heard the explosion, I had no idea it was an atomic bomb,” Fukahori tells me as we meet in a back room in Urakawa Cathedral, where he is now a parishioner aged 84. “But it was so loud, the ground shook incredibly hard. The moment my body felt the ripples of the explosion, I knew that this was an attack on a scale none of us had ever experienced before.”
Fukuhori, like many others who survived the attack, did not turn to media in the immediate aftermath for information. “Back in those days, there was no TV or the internet so it was impossible to see what the damage looked like unless you were physically present where it happened,” he says. “Either way, we didn’t know the exact weapon dropped in Hiroshima just three days before; all we heard was that it fell victim to ‘a new kind of bomb’. The same phrase had been used on the radio with this attack on Nagasaki. But none of us had the time to process the science behind the attack; we were just shocked with what we saw on the ground.”
The attack on Nagasaki was an outcome of a plan overturned at the last minute by the US forces. Despite setting their sights onto Kokura, another city also in Kyushu prefecture, they switched their target to Nagasaki at the last minute. The sunny weather there was a better opportunity to maximise the nuclear technology; more exposure to heat meant the more damage was going to be done.
Fukuhori was inside a factory 3.4 km away from the epicentre, where he had taken a day off from a Christian summer school when the atomic bomb had dropped. “I survived the attack scarless precisely because I was inside a building in the shade, away from the sun,” he said. “The same applies to my father, who survived because he was working at a weapons factory, which could withstand any kind of attack. But I never found the bodies of my mother, my two brothers and two sisters who were within less than 1km of epicentre; the war had forced them to study at home, which like all homes were made out of wood.”
A few years after the attack, Fukahori left for Tokyo to pursue his studies in theology at university. It was only upon his return after completing his studies that he had learnt of the weapon and saw first hand how it had affected his community; Christians who were regular attendees of the Urakami Cathedral and lived in the area.
“As the men were away fighting when the attack happened, it was the women and children who lived in these who suffered most in the years to come,” he recalls. “Many of the women I know had developed Keloid scars as a result of the radiation from the bomb. Most of these women are now dead; when they were alive, they would not come out of the house as they felt judged for their appearance. Many also chose to remain single, as they were also afraid they would give birth to disabled children.”
70 years later, Urakawa cathedral projected a video on its newly reconstructed building to take audiences on a journey to retrace the series of events. “Because I am alive, I feel a sense of responsibility to continue living the message of peace,” he says. “As the head of a Virgin Mary statue survived the radiation with black scorched eyes, it’s become a symbol of those who endured the pain in years to come, piecing together what had happened to them. Nagasaki must be the last to go through this ordeal.”
Independent Journalist @motherboard @IndexCensorship ex-@AP Deputy Video News Editor. Human rights, arts & current affairs in digital era. @Cambridge_Uni alum
We publish informed perspectives on fringe topics and add outside narratives to perennial stories — voices worth hearing.

Pretty much every new app has the following problem: lots of people sign up but don’t stick around.
I frequently get asked what are benchmarks for retention after one day or one week. My answer tends to be the same for products in the early days:
Most people look too much at the “big data” and try to draw conclusions. In the early days of a product you have to talk to people. You need anecdotes much more than data. You could say The plural of anecdote is data.
To collect anecdotes, you have to talk to actual users. The best users to call are ones who can help you understand why they tried your product and what hooked them. I like to look for bouncebacks. Bouncebacks are users that have tried your product, bailed immediately and didn’t find it useful, came back to try again for some reason (at least 1 week later, or even better, 1 month later), and then got hooked.
The first step is to identify some bounceback users to call. Select users who you now consider highly active users, but had a specific gap between the time of first signup, and getting into habitual use. Look for different ranges of time between their first attempt to use the product, and when they returned and got hooked. Reach out to them and ask if they would be willing to chat with you about their experiences with your product. It is good to target having around 10 conversations. It is ok to divide the conversations up among different team members.
Ask the following four questions:
Try to find patterns in their answers to help you understand:
From these patterns, you can invest in revising your marketing and improving your product and onboarding. Revamp your messaging to focus more on the messages that brought people back and got them engaged. Update your product and onboarding to simplify whatever the users did the second time to get fully engaged.
A lot of this I learned from a project that Twitter ran with Adaptive Path in 2009 to start understanding our user growth challenges. @stop, @trammell and @ladylexy were instrumental in putting together that first set of user research and learnings that led to a lot of the growth work Twitter invested in over the subsequent years.
We learned from early users that many of them signed up for Twitter and thought it was just a megaphone. When they had nothing to say, and didn’t otherwise understand the product they bailed. When they later heard about how valuable Twitter could be if they followed their reverend or the food truck that broadcasts its location every day, they came back and tried again. But this second time they specifically sought out people to follow and had a good experience. We rapidly rebuilt our onboarding to focus much more on following and finding the right people which caused significant increases in how many users were activated after signing up. We revised our messaging to talk much more about finding and following the right people on Twitter instead of talking about tweeting and broadcasting.
I recommend doing this exercise of interviewing new bounceback users every 6 months. You’ll learn a lot about how to keep improving your adoption and activation.
Product Guy. I have worked on Twitter, Facebook Connect, Zazzle, LinkedIn, RealPlayer. Partner at Greylock, looking for crazy new things.



Airbnb, Disney World, Uber and Nest. They are all phenomenal products, which together are worth over $135 billion! Not only do their services deliver great value, their experiences are so well thought out and executed that their strategy goes unnoticed. In other words, their user experiences are invisible.
When designing the experience and interactions of a product, the most common question I ask myself is, “What is the least amount of work a user has to do, to achieve their desired outcome?”
Who actually enjoys fiddling around with dropdown menus, input forms and buttons? Sometimes as designers, we can be distracted by unnecessary noise when thinking through an experience. We bring emphasis to ‘beautifully designed forms’ because it’s the easier way out. One method I found quite effective is to think of the end goal and work backwards. This allows you to think beyond UI elements and really focus on what matters.
As designers it is important for us to think more holistically about a product and its experience. Polishing pixels is important but an experience which is so great that the design goes unnoticed is even better.
Jared Spool, an expert on the subjects of usability and design explains how Netflix sent out a survey asking their users what they liked best about their service. Customers replied with “Great selection of movies, recommendation tool was helpful and the overall service was great. However one thing they didn’t mention was the site was super functional, intuitive and well designed.

When booking a place on Airbnb, the real value is when the host wants to accommodate the guest who contacted them. In retrospect, Airbnb could have thousands of ‘available’ places to stay at but if no hosts wants to accommodate you — you’ll have a negative experience.
So what does Airbnb do to fast track you to the real value?
It’s invisible. Searching on Airbnb is quite simple and the forms are very minimal. When you make a search on Airbnb, behind the scenes they use machine learning to detect host preferences.
Without going too in depth, what this means is that they have created a machine learning model that learns host behaviours and preferences for accommodation requests. With this understanding, they can optimise a ‘guest’ search results with ‘hosts’ that are more likely to accept your request as a priority. This makes your experience on Airbnb more meaningful as you’re very likely to receive a quick and successful response from a host.
I am yet to experience an Airbnb host who does not respond to me.

Disney World invested $1billion on a magical wristband. Why? because it gives them the opportunity to create a frictionless, magical experience through invisible design.
It all begins when you book your ticket online and pick your favourite rides. Behind the scenes, they capture everything from you. With this data they are able to crunch your preferences then provide you a calculated itinerary that keeps you on route and stops you from zig zagging back and forth across the park.
This invisible experience also flows into your restaurant booking. When you make the reservation the restaurant host will already know your name. In fact, you can sit anywhere and your food will magically make its way to you! How? The restaurant is fitted out with advanced sensors which open up a whole new world of opportunities for them.
With Disney World knowing where you’re located in their magical theme park, this also opens up a ton of new opportunities to deliver an ever greater experience. Just imagine your children’s favourite characters come to them instead of them have weaving through the swarm of people.
As you can see, great design brings great experiences.
From a business standpoint, being able to optimise every itinerary will allow people to explore more of the park’s top attractions. When visitors spend less time in lines, they can do more and ultimately spend more!

Taxis on-demand.
Who ever thought one screen could disrupt an entire industry?
Waving down a taxi before the Uber days was a nightmare. Stranded on the busy streets on a cold winters morning at 4am in Sydney, is not a great experience.
The design of the Uber experience is phenomenal. From an interaction standpoint, Uber solves all of the consumers uncertainties within one screen.
On the opening of the app (with location services permitted), the user does not have to engage with any UI elements to experience the value of the product. This is a great example of industry leading design thinking. They’ve nailed “What is the least amount of work a user has to do, to achieve their desired outcome?” on the head.
As the app loads:
If you have noticed with the success of Uber, the entire concept of booking cabs has diminished. Uber doesn’t offer the ability to ‘book a cab for tomorrow’. They’ve disrupted and revolutionised the industry standards and expectations.

Current thermostats are expensive, complicated and inefficient. Tony Fadell saw this as a major problem, so he created Nest. As the designer of 18 generations of iPods and 3 generations of iPhones, he applied his learnings in creating a ‘Smart Thermostat’.
Most people don’t program their thermostats for many reasons — for me it’s because it’s too fiddly. The Nest team have come up with an experience so great, it’s literally invisible.
For the first 7 days of installation, the thermostat will learn your preferences and personalised schedule. Some features it accommodates include:
This is great because it’s all done behind the scenes. The only thing required from the user is to set the temperatures during the first week. There’s no more fiddling around with unnecessary UI elements. Hence why Nest was bought out by Google.
Great (invisible) design comes at a great cost.
As we endure technological advances and a better understanding of technology, data, user behaviours and expectations, these experiences become more and more achievable. That is why there has been a surge and uprise in Personal Assistant apps.

They’re all a stepping stone in becoming great experiences. They’re focused on delivering an experience where the ‘processing work’ happens behind the scenes. “As a consumer, why do I need to click through a form to tell you what I need? Is it because we’re still adapting old practices, or is it actually a better experience overall?”
I do believe some of these personal assistant apps are powered by manual work at the moment — but as these startups continue to capture more and more data, the opportunity to automate a lot of the manual work will become available. In the next 5 years, we are going to see technology become more integrated than ever, with experiences also becoming even more seamless. I am absolutely blown away by what the team over at Microsoft Cortana are doing!

I hope you’ve learnt a few things from this article and that you’re able to put these design thinking principles into practice. I challenge you, to start pushing yourself into exploring new ways of experiencing digital products. We’re in a digital age where lots of things are now possible. Don’t conform to patterns and trends, they don’t last.
I would love to hear some of the innovative experiences you’re exploring or have executed! Share them with me: innovation@mizko.net
Follow me on Twitter. Catch me on Facebook.

The first secret of design is … noticing:|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9uOMectkCCs
Disney’s $1 Billion Bet on a Magical Wristbandhttp://www.wired.com/2015/03/disney-magicband/
How Airbnb uses machine learning to detect host preferences:http://nerds.airbnb.com/host-preferences/
All about design
Hackerpreneur is a digital Magazine for iOS that explores the shifting landscape of work, creativity, design, startups and entrepreneurship.

It has been over three years since Steve Jobs died.
Since then, books have been written and movies have been made.
Each has celebrated his legacy and aimed to share the secrets he used to build the largest company in the world; things like attention to detail, attracting world-class talent and holding them to high standards.
We think we understand what caused his success.
We don’t.
We dismiss usable principles of success by labeling them as personality quirks.
What’s often missed is the paradoxical interplay of two of his seemingly opposite qualities; maniacal focus and insatiable curiosity. These weren’t just two random strengths. They may have been his most important as they helped lead to everything else.
Jobs’ curiosity fueled his passion and provided him with access to unique insights, skills, values, and world-class people who complemented his own skillset. Job’s focus brought those to bear in the world of personal electronics.
I don’t just say this as as someone who has devoured practically every article, interview, and book featuring him.
I say this as someone who has interviewed many of the world’s top network scientists on a quest to understand how networks create competitive advantage in business and careers.
The Simple Variable That Explains What Really Causes Career Success
In December of 2013, I interviewed one of the world’s top network scientists, Ron Burt. During it, he shared a chart that completely flipped my understanding of success. Here is a simplified version:
The bottom line? According to multiple, peer-reviewed studies, simply being in an open network instead of a closed one is the best predictor of career success.
In the chart, the further to the right you go toward a closed network, the more you repeatedly hear the same ideas, which reaffirm what you already believe. The further left you go toward an open network, the more you’re exposed to new ideas. People to the left are significantly more successful than those to the right.
In fact, the study shows that half of the predicted difference in career success (i.e., promotion, compensation, industry recognition) is due to this one variable.
Do you ever have moments where you hear something so compelling that you need to know more, yet so crazy that you’d have to let go of some of your core beliefs in order to accept the idea?
This was one of those moments for me. Never in all of the books I had read on self-help, career success, business, or Steve Jobs had I come across this idea.
I wondered, “How is it possible that the structure of one’s network could be such a powerful predictor for career success?
How A Closed Network Impacts Your Career
To understand the power of open networks, it’s important to understand their opposite.
Most people spend their careers in closed networks; networks of people who already know each other. People often stay in the same industry, the same religion, and the same political party. In a closed network, it’s easier to get things done because you’ve built up trust, and you know all the shorthand terms and unspoken rules. It’s comfortable because the group converges on the same ways of seeing the world that confirm your own.
To understand why people spend most of their time in closed networks, consider what happens when a group of random strangers is thrown together:
David Rock, the founder of the Neuroleadership Institute, the top organization helping leaders through neuroscience research, explains the process well:
By understanding this process, we can begin to understand why the world is the way it is. We understand why Democrats and Republicans can’t pass bills with obvious benefits to society. We understand why religions have gone to war over history. It helps us understand why we have bubbles, panics, and fads.
The Surprising Power And Pain Of Open Networks
People in open networks have unique challenges and opportunities. Because they’re part of multiple groups, they have unique relationships, experiences, and knowledge that other people in their groups don’t.
This is challenging in that it can lead to feeling like an outsider as a result of being misunderstood and under-appreciated because few people understand why you think the way you do. It is also challenging, because it requires assimilating different and conflicting perspectives into one worldview.
In one of my all-time favorite movies, The Matrix, the main character, Neo, is exposed to a completely new world. Once he is, he can’t go back. He’s an outsider in the new group, and he’s an outsider in his old life. He’s had an experience that everyone he’s ever met would never understand. This same phenomenon happens when we enter new worlds of people.
On the other hand, having an open network is a huge opportunity in a few ways:
The Revisionist Timeline Of Steve Jobs Success
As a result of pursuing his curiosity in different fields throughout his life, Steve Jobs developed an extremely unique perspective, skillset, and network; one that no one else in the computer industry had. He turned these unique advantages into the largest company in the world by having a razor sharp focus. Within Apple, he cut out people, products, and systems that weren’t world-class.
Many are quick to label parts of Steve Jobs’ life as the ‘lost’ or ‘wilderness’ years. However, when we view his life in retrospect, we see that his diversions were critical to his success.
What is labeled as the magic of Steve Jobs or the quirks of his character become replicable principles we can all follow.
It is from this vantage point that we can begin to understand the following quote from a Steve Jobs interview for Wired in 1995:
Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish.
Throughout human history, all societies including our own have created myths that share one common element, the hero’s journey.
Here’s what the journey looks like according to Joseph Campbell, the originator of the term…
Things are going great. You feel normal and fit in. Then something happens, and you change. You start to feel like an outsider in your own culture. You hide parts of yourself to fit in, but that doesn’t help. You feel called to leave and fulfill part of yourself, but that has a lot of uncertainty. So, you hesitate at first.
Finally, you take the plunge. You go through difficult times as you’re learning to navigate the new world. Finally, you overcome the challenges. Then, you go back to your old culture and have a huge impact because you share the unique insights you’ve learned.
The hero’s journey myth is embedded in everything from our society’s classic movies (i.e., Star Wars) to the heroes we glorify (i.e., Steve Jobs), because it hits on core parts of the human experience.
The field of network science shows us two things. (1) The hero’s journey is the blueprint for creating career success. (2) We can all be heroes. It just takes a little faith as you follow your heart and curiosity into unknown worlds. As Steve Jobs said, “You can’t connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. ”
— —
Other Related Article By Me
— —
I would love to hear your thoughts on how you build open networks! And if you enjoyed, please scroll down and click the “recommend” button.
— —
I write at MichaelDSimmons.com and am the co-founder of Empact. To receive more articles like this one, visit my blog.
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
For the majority of my child and adult life I never considered myself a “morning person.” I was a night owl. During my architecture school career I worked late through the night and slept in the mornings. When I started working at an Architecture firm, I conformed to getting up at 7am… but I didn’t enjoy it. I would get up as late as possible, skip breakfast, rush to work, and then feel like I was trying to catch up the rest of the day.
This type of routine will take its toll on your physical and mental well-being and majorly impact your productivity.
Now, I work from home for myself on various businesses, and I happily wake up around 5:30 am each day. Even on weekends, I’m usually up by 7 am. It could be that I’m enjoying the work I’m doing so much and am accountable to only myself; however, I think it has more to do with the fact that I’ve learned so much about how creating good habits and a morning routine are critical for lifetime success. A morning routine sets the tone for the whole day, and if you do each day right, you’ll do life right.
One of my goals for the beginning of this year was to get into a good morning routine in order to set myself up for the day. It started whenever I read The Miracle Morning by Hal Elrod in January. I knew that not having a good morning routine and feeling overwhelmed and disorganized were connected.
I needed to work smarter, not harder, and the first step was to create good habits.
The first thing I needed to do was quit the belief that I was a “night owl.”
Over the past several months I have been working on “habit stacking” to craft myself a good morning routine that works for me. Habit Stacking is a way to build a new habit into your life by stacking it on top of something you’re currently doing. For example, before I brush my teeth in the morning (current habit) I will meditate (new habit) for 3 minutes. I’ve discovered the personal ritual I have set up for myself has helped put me in the right mindset and offset any morning procrastination. Here’s a previous medium post I wrote about it.
Another great reason to create a morning ritual it is to avoid mental fatigue.
We only have a certain amount of energy and willpower when we wake up each morning, and it slowly gets drained away with decisions. This is especially true if you’re making hundreds of small decisions in the morning that mean nothing yet will affect how you make decisions for the remainder of the day. Try to have the first hour of your day vary as little as possible with a routine.
Avoiding mental fatigue is why Mark Zuckerberg wears the same thing everyday. Knowing exactly how the first 90 minutes of my day looks like is powerful, as it helps me feel in control and non-reactive, which in turn reduces anxiety and ensures I’m more productive throughout the day.

After 6–10 hours without any liquid, you need to rehydrate and wake yourself up. Drinking water is a great way to kickstart your metabolism, especially when it’s ice cold.
A little light stretching in the morning is all it takes to shake off grogginess and limber up for the day ahead. It only takes a few minutes but by doing basic stretches, here’s the ones I do. I use the 7 minute workout app.
When I first heard friends talk about taking cold showers in the morning, I thought they were nuts. Then one random day in mid-February I decided to try it. I’m not going to lie: it sucked. However, I felt so energized and alive after it that I’ve been doing it every day since. If you’re considering it, be prepared for discomfort at first, but also look forward to feeling more refreshed and alive than you have before. Also, it has numerous health benefits
Perhaps the most important part of my routine is clearing my mind so that I can gain focus for the day. I’m very new to meditation. I only added it to my daily life within the past 6 months.
I personally use the Muse headband because, as a beginner, I had trouble learning how to meditate and understand when my mind was drifting. The Muse detects my brain signals to let me know when my brain is calm and focused and when it is not. It is not essential for meditation. I have also heard great things about the app Headspace.
Since beginning the daily habit of meditation I have seen a big improvement in my focus, productivity, and stress levels for the rest of the day.
I’ve been doing bulletproof intermittent fasting since Oct./Nov. of last year, so I only drink BP Coffee in the morning. While the coffee is brewing, I use those few minutes to wash some dishes. No one could ever accuse me of being a “cleaner,” but I enjoy doing the dishes in the morning so I can think through my day. It also makes me feel like I have accomplished something already, which is a great way to start the day.
This 20 minutes of reading has been huge for me. Not only is it enjoyable, but reading books on mindset, personal growth, and business inspires me in the beginning of my day and gets the creative juices flowing. If you’re curious what I’m reading, you can see here.
This part of my morning routine was established more recently and is a creative process. It’s an activity of writing 750 words (around 3 pages) each morning. It’s not blogging or anything that I will ever release to the world. It’s a stream of consciousness of whatever is on my mind, essentially a brain dump on ideas for business, life, and other decisions. Whatever I want to clear my mind of, It gets my brain working and thinking more creatively.
Each morning I write down my goals. First, I write down a long-term goal that I’m working towards. I write this down each day to keep me mindful of my direction so that I don’t go off track. Then, I write down the day’s targets, which are what 3 things I need to accomplish to move me further toward my long-term goal. I usually have my 13-Week Roadmap planned ahead of time that has my goals broken down with a timeline. I’ll delve into this process in another post, but essentially it’s a planning structure so that I know what I should be working on for 3 months at a time. Interested in learning about this? Let me know.
I break down my day in 30 minute increments, enter any calls or appointments I have, and then schedule out my tasks for the day. I always put the most important (coincidentally usually the least enjoyable) first so that I ensure it gets done. I try to never book any meetings or appointments until late in the afternoon if I can help it because my mornings are my sacred hours of peak productivity.
Then I begin working.
I don’t look at my phone, email, facebook, or twitter until after I’ve completed that first big task of my day. I pause my inboxes the night before (using inbox pause) so that, in the morning, if I do need to send out any emails I can do so without being bombarded with any incoming mail. Remember, email is someone else’s request of your time. Prioritize your goals and tasks first before looking at email so you don’t go into reactive mode as opposed to proactive mode.
My morning routine takes just over an hour. I can’t stress enough to you the importance of a great morning routine, as it will set you up for a successful day — and life. With that said, what I do isn’t for everyone. I experimented with a few different things and figured out what worked for me. You should do the same. Soon you’ll know what things work for you, and you’ll enjoy starting your day.
I’d love to hear about your morning routine if you have one. What does the first hour of your day look like?

Cathryn Lavery is a serial entrepreneur dedicated to helping others become their Best Self.
Want to build a morning routine like hers? Use the Self Journal to structure your day and reach any goal faster. It’s live on Kickstarter now


Serial Entrepreneur — Founder of CalmTheHam.com & BestSelf.co
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

I’ve written and rewritten this blog in my head several times over the past few months. As many of you know, I have been recovering from anorexia since April. I was at an Ivy League school, a D-1 athlete and should have been living my dream. Nobody expected me to end up in the hospital with an eating disorder freshman year, especially me. Now that I have had an abundance of time to reflect on the past few years, I understand what precipitated my eating disorder and have gained a new perspective on the world around me as it relates to eating, health and body image.
I have always been a perfectionist in everything I do, pushing myself to my limit and beyond no matter what the endeavor, large or small. In high school I wanted to be a straight A student, a D-1 athlete and, sadly, more important than all, I wanted to be skinny. I followed rules from my parents, rubrics from my teachers, and directions from my coaches to the letter. So in my junior year of high school when my club gymnastics coach told me I needed to lose ten pounds, I was determined to do exactly as he said. At the time, like many girls my age, I was already having body image issues and confusing puberty with getting “fat”. Thinking I was doing what was needed, I began to throw up after dinner. It didn’t take long before I began purging twice a day but I convinced myself that I didn’t have a problem since I never binge ate and only ate “healthy” foods. I began constantly to compare my body to others. I followed fitness and health food accounts on Instagram and became obsessed with being as fit as possible. Despite how close I was to my friends and family, no one knew what was swirling inside my head. And I had absolutely no idea that I was suffering from anorexia.
By the time I got to college last fall, I decided I wanted to stop the purging and feel “normal” again. I focused instead on becoming even more fit. I began doing extra cardio daily in addition to my hours of gymnastics, and constantly felt like there was something more I could do. I gave into the “gluten free” fad and descended down a slippery slope of eliminating all the “bad” foods from my diet. I downloaded a calorie counter on my phone and I told myself If I was going to be healthy, I was going to be as healthy as possible. I mainly ate salads — and took the dressing off. I drank tons of water to fill myself up. I stopped putting milk in my coffee. My favorite foods — avocados, sushi, peanut butter, bread — became fear foods. I no longer ate carbs, and eventually even the calories in gum seemed to be too much for me. How ironic that my “healthy” lifestyle was nearly killing me.
As I began to get sicker, I pulled away from my friends and family. I obsessed over how I appeared in Instagram and Facebook photos. Around February, I began avoiding eating with people and I was constantly tired, unhappy and cold. My hair was falling out in clumps and my skin was dry and dead looking. I struggled to socialize because all I could think about was food and exercise. The way I looked and what I ate became the most important part of my life. As I deprived my body of nutrients, I deprived my brain (which is normally 60% fat), thus making rational decisions nearly impossible. I was able to convince myself and others that I didn’t have a problem by disguising my food restriction as self discipline. Nobody knew or noticed. I was competing for my team and earning straight A’s. I was even getting compliments on my appearance. By March, I had deemed almost all foods “bad” except egg whites and greens. I thought of myself as healthier than everyone around me. Little did I know that I had a resting heart rate of 30 and was at risk for cardiac arrest.
In April, the “gradual” weight loss abruptly became drastic. My kidneys were failing and my organs were shutting down. My body was deep in starvation mode. Finally I recognized how weak and sick I felt and I was scared. My mom was shocked by my Facebook pictures. Still, I didn’t connect my symptoms with my eating habits until my mom arrived on a red-eye, helped me navigate the healthcare system and I was admitted into the ICU. On April 15th, I began the toughest chapter of my life thus far: recovery.
I spent two and a half weeks in the hospital, much of it on strict bed-rest with continuous monitoring of my heart and other vitals, during the initial slow, steady, often painful, refeeding process. When my heart rate was finally stable, I was discharged and placed on a strict meal plan, implemented by my mother. Once the body has experienced starvation and the nearly fatal process of shutting down, even a small weight loss can trigger the whole process again, even many months after weight has been restored. Eating five or six meals a day is nearly impossible to do alone: recovery from anorexia requires the full support of family. I was able to finish those last five weeks of my freshman year because my mother prepared and served the six meals a day prescribed by my doctors. But I arrived home only to be hospitalized again for a week. Just the increased activity and slight diet change while packing up and flying home had sent my heart rate plunging again.
It was easier for me to be motivated to start eating again when I was in the hospital setting and so clearly sick. As I have gotten better, I have become more aware of how much of my daily life as a young woman, a college student, and an athlete, encourages disordered eating. As soon as I began recovery, I unfollowed all food and health accounts on Instagram and deleted my snapchat in order to quiet the noise about weight loss and fitness that surrounds so much of today’s media. I needed to stop seeing what other people were eating, or what they were doing for exercise or how they looked in their gym clothes. I just needed to get better.
After two hospitalizations, I really understand how dangerous it is to try and alter your own body. If I look frail and bony at age eighteen, how am I going to look when I’m 60? Or how about 80? Will I even make it to 80? The thought itself is scary. In order to stay healthy, I have to remember that good health is something that is continuous and cannot be compared to others. This is my one body; we don’t get “re-do’s” when it comes to our own genetics and it may sound crazy but when I was sick this thought didn’t occur to me. I only cared about changing my body in the immediate and how I looked in the moment. If I felt full, I was fat. If I was hungry, I was skinny and there was nothing in between. Everything about eating and my body image felt urgent and dire, like eating the yolk of an egg would suddenly cause my pants to tighten or that obesity was going to sneak up on me one hour after eating a scoop of ice cream. I never thought about the effect that trying to change my outward appearance had on my heart, kidneys and long-term health.
Now I cringe when I hear someone mention how they want to go “gluten free” to lose weight. Or how they want to go “ano” for two weeks to get a beach body. I struggle to walk into places like Panera Bread or Starbucks where they have calories plastered next to every item. They fuel the ideas that precipitate eating disorders: that some foods are “bad”, or that we are supposed to feel guilty after eating a calorically dense food or that we have to earn our foods before we eat them. Food is food and it is not something that needs to be earned. Our bodies need a balanced diet regardless of whether we exercised that day or not.
So, as many of my classmates and friends have travelled this summer, held prestigious internships or taken summer courses, I’ve been recovering. I have spent my summer in doctors’ offices and labs and therapy sessions week after week and it has been as exhausting and taxing as a full-time job. My hair has slowly stopped falling out, my skin has light in it again, and I’ve gotten stronger. Even though I have been recovering for almost four months now, I still have to carefully manage my intake and exercise to be sure that my heart rate and blood pressure don’t drop. It shocked me to learn that even after regaining the weight I lost, my body still has so much more healing to do. I will be working hard at my recovery for a long time.
As terrifying and hard as many moments of this process have been so far, the main thing I feel is relief. Rather than wishing to be skinny, I wish for happiness. Rather than admiring girls whose bones show, I admire girls who can eat foods they enjoy without anguish. I wish to be able to get an ice cream cone with my little nieces and nephew and not cry inside. I wish fully and mindfully to experience college and life, not just see how it makes me appear on Instagram. But most of all, I wish for health and I wish to never damage my body again.
Brown University ‘18, avocado and redwood tree loving, Public Health major. This is my (rocky) journey to a life free of Anorexia Nervosa 🌻
Home to some of the best articles on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.

1. If I don’t create, I won’t affect the world around me.
2. Writing is the minimum viable product of my life.
3. There’s no despair that can’t be held at bay with words.
4. When people ask what I do, I have something to point to.
5. Having a career and paying bills is treading water for me – writing gives me a purpose.
6. I have stories I need to tell and beliefs I need to share.
7. Writing can change lives, and there are lives that need to be changed.
8. If I don’t challenge myself, I will atrophy – without writing, my legacy would be a very well curated Netflix library.
9. My writing is my own roadmap – it helps me find my way.
10. I write to meet people and to connect with others who I might never have had any contact with otherwise.
11. Some might say sharing and creating the written word is the entire point of the Internet.
12. Because I fucking love the way simple letters look on a minimalist background.
13. Writing is the only career that has ever felt right to me. When I write I belong.
15. All my family write. And always have. It connects us all.
16. Writing enables me to discover things about myself that I never knew.
17. Right now, we are drafting the future of digital publishing – I wouldn’t trade my place in that for anything.
18. Writing is its own form of innovation.
19. Writing is a skill that can be applied to and is needed by every industry, technology and platform.
20. Being able to write is one of the greatest accomplishments of humanity.
21. My girlfriend likes writers ;)
22. Writing demonstrates more than just an ability to put words on a page – it shows dedication, project management and marketing. It can be a point of professional differentiation.
23. Writing can help me relax and breathe and take stock of my life.
24. People want and need great content, they’re reaching out for it and searching for it.
25. No matter how old I get, even when I’m too weak to do much else, I’ll be able to write.
26. It stops me from being bored in a way that TV can never quite match.
27. Because there are some incredible words out there that are fucking fun to write. Like floccinaucinihilipilification. I don’t even know what that means, but I love it.
28. My thoughts are my own and could never come the same way from anyone else. Because everyone is unique. That’s amazing.
29. Because it gives me something to do on the train.
30. I want people to one day look up to me the way I look up to the writers that I love and respect. I know that sounds egotistical, but I don’t care. It’s honest.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

One week ago, a man brought a gun into a movie theater in Lafayette, Louisiana at the showing of comedian and actress Amy Schumer’s new film Trainwreck. Below is an open letter I have written to her in response:
~
Dear Amy Schumer,
This week, #Aurora and #Lafayette were trending on Twitter at the same time; one tragedy was just closing in court and one was just beginning in a theater. All of this transpired on social media just as we marked the one month anniversary since a mass shooting in #Charleston — yes, that was a hashtag, too.
All of this may seem like it’s playing out on your computer — a safe world away from where you live and work in Hollywood. But as a woman, a daughter and sister, a national figure, and a role model, you have a real stake in gun violence happening all around you.
Your movie — which was so well-received, so brilliant, so you — will now forever have this shooting attached to it. You’ve been caught in the middle of our country’s terrifying, unending war with itself, our sick and twisted relationship with the gun lobby, which tells us we need guns for anyone, anywhere, anytime. Search your movie “Trainwreck” on Google and a scroll-down suggestion will now be “Trainwreck shooting.”
A showing of your film — an honest, unapologetic celebration of women’s rights to our bodies, decisions, and independence — was the place a middle-aged man who, “opposed to women having a say in anything,” chose to commit a mass shooting.
I know the guilt, the sadness, the hole in your heart you’re feeling. I know the crushing anxiety you have for Jillian Johnson and Mayci Breaux and their families. I know the sudden feeling that you are not safe anywhere anymore, the numbness that whisks through your limbs and makes you forget that you’re human and that you’re in control. I know all of this. Not because I was in your exact shoes, but because I own a different make of them.
2012 was the worst year of my life. It was the year America saw the shooting of Trayvon Martin, the shooting in Aurora, the shooting at the Sikh Temple in Wisconsin, the shooting of Jordan Davis, the shooting at the mall in Portland, and the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School.
My mother survived that last one.
Six of her colleagues — all women — were killed, as were 20 first-graders. After the shooting, I dedicated my life’s work to gun violence prevention, and what I noticed immediately was that women are taking the reins in the movement. From the voices of mothers who lost their children to those of daughters who lost their mothers. From the calls to action by young women on campuses to women who work and are raising children they want to protect, in communities of all types. Women have truly begun to lead the gun violence prevention movement — and they are winning.
Women are our teachers, our protectors, our shielders. Women weep in public and in private for the lives we’ve lost, and they’re not afraid to scream at the cameras and go toe-to-toe with monsters who perpetuate these crimes on the streets and in boardrooms. Women are very simply the ultimate moral base in our battles for peace and justice throughout the world.
Women also bear the brunt of the harassment and violence perpetrated against our movement. The hatred and trolling of women fighting for gun reform is specifically twisted to become gendered threats and attacks. They reference rape, “setting us in our place,” obeying men and shutting us up, and overall they simply exemplify the worst of a patriarchy obsessed with the symbol and purpose of guns.
Of course, these extremists are barely a fraction of gun owners in America. But this very vocal minority is very afraid because what we’re advocating is — in their minds — the ultimate emasculation. Women telling men to tone it down with their guns, showing them real data that proves guns don’t actually make them safer. They feel vulnerable and so they call us names to shame us. They use their arsenals and state-willed unregulated access to guns to threaten us.
In the past few months, you produced a fake commercial for an episode of your show that makes a striking point about gun accessibility and the idiocy of our country’s thought processes on issues disproportionately affecting our generation. After a young woman (you) must go through an array of people to get approval to use birth control, the pharmacist reluctantly gives her the pills. She walks away shocked and disgruntled. Then a boy, maybe 10 years old, comes to the front desk and asks for a gun. The pharmacist slings one across to him and says, “Here you go! And remember, it’s your right!”
You get it.
All of these problems — the disgusting comments and harassment we receive on Twitter and other social media platforms, the obsession of many mass shooters (see the Isla Vista case) with anti-feminism and anti-women ideals, the over-idolization of firearms and fetishization of what they stand for, and the easy access to guns all stem from the same group of core ideologies that we must work to shut down.
We must shut them down because every day in the United States, five women are murdered with a gun. Women in our country are 11 times more likely to be murdered with a gun than women in other high-income countries. And from 2001 through 2012, 6,410 women were murdered in the United States by an intimate partner using a gun — more than the total number of U.S. troops killed in action during the entirety of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars combined. Women of color are particularly disproportionately impacted by gun violence. These are mothers, daughters, sisters, our best friends.
This is the experience of women in a country overshadowed by rampant, targeted gun violence and fear and hatred of women by people who are armed. This is not freedom — at least not for women.
Amy Schumer, I and many other Millennials look up to you so much. You are our generation’s epitome of what it means to be a strong, powerful, self-aware champion for the experiences and truths of being a woman and an American today. I admire your unapologetic, unwavering stature and your ability to laugh at yourself while actually pinning the joke on the audience to address often uncomfortable truths. In fact, I have nearly memorized the very end of the speech you gave at the Ms. Gala award ceremony. You said:
“I am a woman with thoughts and questions and shit to say. I say if I’m beautiful. I say if I’m strong. You will not determine my story — I will. I will speak… and I will never apologize to the frightened millions who resent that they never had it in them to do it. I stand here and I am amazing, for you. Not because of you… I am myself. And I am all of you…”
I know deep down that the tweet you sent after the shooting was not all that you’ve got. And we need your voice in this movement. We need your help.
Join your colleagues Sarah Silverman and Kristen Schaal. Join our movement. Write an op-ed. Support an organization. Demand change. Be a voice for our generation and for women — two groups who make up most of the victims of the gun violence in our country.
As you said and as I’ve learned, what truly matters in life is how you decide to write your own story. And in doing so, don’t apologize to the frightened millions who resent that they never had it in them to do it. Instead, show them it can be done.
Daughter of Sandy Hook survivor, student activist for safer communities, gun violence prevention advocate. #Fight4AFuture #Fight4The33 #NotOneMore
humandevelopmentgroup.org

Forget overpriced schools, long days in a crowded classroom, and pitifully poor results. These websites and apps cover myriads of science, art, and technology topics. They will teach you practically anything, from making hummus to building apps in node.js, most of them for free. There is absolutely no excuse for you not to master a new skill, expand your knowledge, or eventually boost your career. You can learn interactively at your own pace and in the comfort of your own home. It’s hard to imagine how much easier it can possibly be. Honestly, what are you waiting for?




edX — Take online courses from the world’s best universities.
Coursera — Take the world’s best courses, online, for free.
Coursmos — Take a micro-course anytime you want, on any device.
Highbrow — Get bite-sized daily courses to your inbox.
Skillshare — Online classes and projects that unlock your creativity.
Curious — Grow your skills with online video lessons.
lynda.com — Learn technology, creative and business skills.
CreativeLive — Take free creative classes from the world’s top experts.
Udemy — Learn real world skills online.




Codecademy — Learn to code interactively, for free.
Stuk.io — Learn how to code from scratch.
Udacity — Earn a Nanodegree recognized by industry leaders.
Platzi — Live streaming classes on design, marketing and code.
Learnable — The best way to learn web development.
Code School — Learn to code by doing.
Thinkful — Advance your career with 1-on-1 mentorship.
Code.org — Start learning today with easy tutorials.
BaseRails — Master Ruby on Rails and other web technologies.
Treehouse — Learn HTML, CSS, iPhone apps & more.
One Month — Learn to code and build web applications in one month.
Dash — Learn to make awesome websites.




DataCamp — Online R tutorials and data science courses.
DataQuest — Learn data science in your browser.
DataMonkey — Develop your analytical skills in a simple, yet fun way.




Duolingo — Learn a language for free.
Lingvist — Learn a language in 200 hours.
Busuu — The free language learning community.
Memrise — Use flashcards to learn vocabulary.




TED-Ed — Find carefully curated educational videos
Khan Academy — Access an extensive library of interactive content.
Guides.co — Search the largest collection of online guides.
Squareknot — Browse beautiful, step-by-step guides.
Learnist — Learn from expertly curated web, print and video content.
Prismatic — Learn interesting things based on social recommendation.




Chesscademy — Learn how to play chess for free.
Pianu — A new way to learn piano online, interactively.
Yousician— Your personal guitar tutor for the digital age.

UPDATE: Full list including the best of your suggestions can be also found here.

Written by @kristynazdot, founder and CEO of maqtoob.com — app discovery platform for inspiring entrepreneurs. At the moment, it features 1,500+ handpicked tools for startups, small businesses, and freelancers.
and she was that girl who wanted to be happy | CEO @maqtoobtools
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
I never in my life thought I would be writing an article like this.
As many people know I am a strong supporter of AirBNB. Over the last 2+ years, I have hosted over 700 guests in my house and been an ambassador to AirBNB in so many ways, from presenting at a dozen local events educating new hosts, helping new guests become familiar with the platform, writing articles, going on podcasts, running TravelersChat, a Slack community for AirBNB hosts and currently developing a small SaaS app to help hosts. This year I was to speak at the AirBNB Open in Paris, my trip was being paid for by AirBNB. (airfare & accommodation). That’s why the past few days events are so surprising to me.
I wrote this throughout the last few days as this all happened. I wanted to give AirBNB a chance to correct it or give me a real answer before I hit publish. Since they have fallen silent I feel this is my last option to bring attention to this.
9:25 AM, August 14th, 2015
My phone rings with a San Francisco number, the person asked for me by name and said he was calling from AirBNB. I was a little tired, I had woken up at 6:30 AM to let some arriving guests in. But I perked up out of my bed, thinking it must be something about AirBNB Open coming in November. Then the person on the other end of the phone said…
The monotone voice continued to read a short script, telling me my account will be terminated on August 15th. I repeatedly asked why, the voice simply said they would follow up with an email. I was in complete shock, my brain was racing everywhere and I literally started trembling. What the heck is going on?
This is the vague email I received from them minutes after the call.
I have replied three times to the email. I got back a single nearly identical reply with no reason as to their actions.
9:30 AM, August 14th, 2015
I immediately called the country manager for AirBNB. She couldn’t tell me anything, saying that AirBNB HQ didn’t tell her the reason, just that she was aware of it a few days ago and she “fought” for me.
I logged into my account and started looking around. I noticed they had already started canceling reservations and credited my account for the $2,374. Which is just under 50% of future earnings, probably because my cancelation policy is set to strict.
I am absolutely crushed. I have no idea what I could have possibly done wrong. They will not even tell me. I have given so much to the AirBNB community.
My account is to be terminated on August 15th, but I still have to honor guests until next week. Am I even covered under AirBNB’s insurance since they canceled my account & liability?
I have already received multiple emails from guests that were to stay at my place asking why I canceled them. Throughout the day, I replied to them all like this:
I have no idea, no explanation, I feel bad for the guests that were looking forward to a smooth stay on their vacation and now have to deal with this at the last minute.
2:01 PM, August 14th, 2015
I decided to email all three of the founders directly. So far I have not received a response.
This is a letter I sent to the AirBNB founders.
3:16 PM, August 14th, 2015
After I sent this email, I also got a call from my country manager again, she gave me a specific email address to write to. The “Trust & Safety Department”. I sent basically the same email as above.
So far the emails have been opened and read over 350 times, from multiple places around the world. Who knows who these email addresses really go to.
3:46 PM, August 14th, 2015
After looking around on my account trying to see what is going on I see that an iPhone has been logging in all over the USA for 2 months. I have never left Bangkok. I immediately change my password and log out all the sessions on the AirBNB website. I also sent an email to the country manager with the screenshot.
The country manager replied saying she cannot provide any details and I should email another person from now on.
I sent the same email to that new person and also the above screenshot. That person has read the email but never replied.
6:22 PM, August 14th, 2015
The country manager calls me and asks me to coffee at 7:30 PM, and sent an email to me to confirm the meeting.
I go to the coffee shop where she arrives with another person from AirBNB Singapore office. He has just heard about my termination a few hours before. He told me that one of the things that he wanted to do in Thailand was meet me because I am such a huge supporter of AirBNB.
The meeting was basically them telling me they are just as shocked as I am and that they have no clue of what’s going on. We talked about the situation, the whole time my mind is swirling. They offered to buy me dinner, I got an ice tea, I couldn’t eat. After about 30 minutes, I decided to leave. They said they would continue to try and get to the bottom of this. We hugged, said our goodbyes and parted ways, me feeling like I have lost a good friend in addition to my AirBNB hosting job. I just felt sick and no further along than before.
4:26 PM, August 15th, 2015
I received an email that the guest who was to check-in on Monday no longer needs accommodation and the inquiry is now closed. It wasn’t an inquiry but a full booking. I logged into my AirBNB account and see the other guests that were to arrive are now canceled and the funds no longer show as future payouts, not even for 50%. One more guest that is checking on August 15th is still showing as a reservation.
Tell you what, my last guest is going to be treated like royalty.
9:06 PM, August 15th, 2015
I decided to send another message to the founders.
10:45 PM, August 15th, 2015
I greeted my final guests into my home, who would be here for two days, leaving on Monday. Meeting them just outside as the taxi dropped them off. We said our hellos and went inside. I showed them how the house’s electronic door & lighting works. As they said hellos to my cats I carried their bag up to their room. I answered a few questions of where things were and how to get around in Bangkok. Making sure they were all settled in I went in my bedroom to get some rest.
8:36 AM, August 16th, 2015
A guest thats been with me for five days checks out while I am still sleeping. They send me an SMS saying thanks for the enjoyable stay.
10:59 PM, August 16th, 2015
I finally received a reply from one of the Founders. Made me feel like something is moving forward, otherwise why reply at all. Immediately after receiving this another email came in from a Michelle said one-word “Reviewing”.

10:00 AM, August 16th, 2015
My last ever guest leaves the house. For the first time my house feels really big and empty.
6:50 PM, August 17th, 2015
Hoping things would be getting fixed now. I decided to leave my reply until Monday evening.
I also sent a quick email to Michelle.
10:50 AM, August 18th, 2015
Still no reply from Michelle, so I sent my a last follow up email.

I have received no quality replies from AirBNB. Not only have I been kicked out of a community I loved, promoted and cared for, but I have lost a substantial portion amount of my monthly income that I depended on.
This very much saddens me, since I have no idea what the reason is, I can only speculate. I have spent hours going over everything & anything in my head, I have drawn a complete blank. Was a guest not happy? Did another host report my account for some reason?
If it was a guest that reported me for something, I would have thought I would be able to correct it. I treat every guest with the utmost respect and dignity, so a complaint like from a guest seems unlikely.
What in the world could I have possibly done to deserve such a drastic move on AirBNB’s part?
If it is so severe to terminate my account, why let more guests stay at my house after my termination date?
I thought the sharing economy was about just that: sharing, transparency and making the world better collectively?
I poured a great deal of myself & time into supporting AirBNB. I have no idea what steps I should take next, this is completely baffling to me. I still feel this is a horrible mistake, total misunderstanding or misinterpreted policy. Surely this was not the company Brian and Joe set out to build when they could barely pay their rent.
If you found any value in this, it would be great of you to scroll down and hit that “Recommend” button. Also “Follow” me to stay updated.

Hi, my name is Kelly Kampen, founder of Dojo, a streetwear company with a mission. Great threads & giving back: 10% of every purchase goes to causes and charities all over the world. I also do Business Development for Oozou an awesome Ruby on Rails development agency. Coming to Bangkok? Stay at my place.Want to talk? Drop me a line at kelly<at>do/dot/jo
Entrepreneur, LifeHacker, AirBNB Superhost, Founder of @DojoThreads Dojo Threads & Gear http://do.jo, Biz Dev @Oozou a Ruby on Rails Agency http://oozou.com
This is my adventrues and thoughts on being an AirBNB Superhost
Here are the lessons I learned building a company to 500 people and $7B in transactions while raising $125M along the way.
I love reading blogs by founders who try to give back and share what they’ve learned building their companies, so today I’ll try and do the same.
When I look back over the last 15 years building 4 different companies (most recently Bigcommerce), here are some things I’d do different if I was to start another company, as well as a few things I wouldn’t change.
If you’re just getting started, keep in mind that it’s at least a 7–10 year journey, so when the going gets tough I found it can be useful to get some perspective from other founders who have gone down the same path.
Stay focused, be positive and know that even when you “get big” it’s still a roller coaster of ups, downs, highs, lows, fun and fu*ks. That’s why having a big, compelling vision and building a great team around you is so important.
Here’s my list. I hope you find it useful.
Things I’d do differently
Things I’d do again
Read more posts like this at my personal blog, BlogMitch.com or follow me on Twitter @mitchellharper
I like building, advising and investing in software companies. Most recently @Bigcommerce co-founder. I also blog at BlogMitch.com
Earlier this week, an interview with the actor Cara Delevingne made the rounds online. In it, the anchors of “Good Day Sacramento” refer to her as “Carla” and then ask her whether she read the novel Paper Towns. (She stars in the film adaptation.)
The interview goes downhill from there, with the interviewers suggesting that she is tired, and that she is not adequately excited about the opportunity to be on Good Day Sacramento, which is the #1 morning show in literally all of Sacramento, and then they tell her to take a nap and cut the interview short.
I am friends with Cara, and the author of the book in question. I spent more than a month with her on tour in Europe and the U.S., and I watched as again and again, she was asked this question. Cara has read the book (multiple times), but the question is annoying — not least because her male costar, Nat Wolff, was almost always asked when he’d read the book, while Cara was almost always asked if she’d read it.
In the past two months, I’ve done something like 300 on-camera interviews. As you get asked the same questions again and again, you develop rote responses as a way of protecting yourself. The rote responses are true — the cast really was like a family; we really are all still friends — but in the repetition, the answers start to feel less and less honest.
For example, I was asked in most interviews how involved I was in the film, and I told the truth, which is that I did basically nothing and sat around all day eating Cheetos and telling everyone they were doing a good job. And then Nat would jump in and say, “John’s being modest. His understanding of the story and characters were vital to us.” But because we were reciting lines more than answering questions, the answer started to feel dishonest to me. At one point between interviews, I said to Nat, “I can’t remember if I even like Cheetos.” And he said, “That’s okay, man. I can’t remember if your understanding of the story was vital to us.”
Look, these are obviously the first worldiest of first world problems, but the whole process of commodifying personhood to sell movie tickets is inherently dehumanizing. The TV people want some part of you, and in exchange for it, they will put the name of your movie on TV. But in that process, you do lose something of your self. (For the record, I don’t get the feeling that the journalists asking the same questions over and over particularly savor the experience, either. But they need their sit-down interview, and we need our publicity, and so the wheel spins on.)
There are bigger problems in the world — in fact, almost every problem in the world is bigger — but if people are going to pay attention to these junket interviews and criticize Cara for responding flippantly to a stupid question, I think context might be helpful.
I was lucky to share most of my interviews with Nat, one of my closest and most trusted friends, and to learn from him how to deal with uncomfortable questions. (For instance, when asked is X a good kisser, or is X is a better kisser than Y, Nat gently explains that he doesn’t answer questions about kissing, because the women he works with should be talked about for their performances in the film not for their kissing.) But I never really got good at junketry. I just sort of gave up.
Like, there’s a line in the beginning of the novel: “Everyone gets a miracle.” The male narrator of the story believes his miracle is Margo Roth Spiegelman, the character Cara plays in the movie. Later in the book, the boy realizes that Margo is not a miracle, that she is just a person, and that his imagining her as a miracle has been terribly hurtful to them both. But still, I was asked over a hundred times, “Who’s your miracle?” At first, I tried to fight it, tried to argue that we must see people as people, that we must learn to imagine them complexly instead of idealizing them, that the romantic male gaze is limiting and destructive to women. That’s the whole point of the story to me.
But eventually, I just started to say, “My miracle is my wife.” (And then Nat would deadpan, “My miracle is also John’s wife. She’s great.”) In the end, rather than fight, I stuck to the script.
Cara, however, refuses to stick to the script. She refuses to indulge lazy questions and refuses to turn herself into an automaton to get through long days of junketry. I don’t find that behavior entitled or haughty. I find it admirable. Cara Delevingne doesn’t exist to feed your narrative or your news feed — and that’s precisely why she’s so fucking interesting.
I write books, including Looking for Alaska and The Fault in Our Stars. (Books are like tweets, except longer.) I also make videos with my brother.
Eu particularmente estou um pouco cansada de ler tantos textos falando mal da minha geração. Tenho vinte e poucos, sou parte da geração Y, millennials, ou sei lá qual é o nome mais hype que estão atribuindo no momento. Tento compreender isso como aquele fenômeno de que toda geração acha que é melhor do que a próxima, mas penso que certos estereótipos que estão sendo criados não valem a pena.
Rolam por aí ideias de que a nossa geração é preguiçosa, de que a gente quer conquistar tudo sem trabalhar duro por isso, de que achamos que somos especiais, e finalmente a mais esquista de todas: a de que não sabemos nos relacionar com as pessoas. Somos superficiais, interesseiros, falta amor. Por causa do Tinder, do Facebook, do Twitter, do botão unfriend e das altas taxas de divórcios.
Então vou dividir com o mundo os meus vinte centavos sobre o assunto: o grande problema é que a gente sabe se relacionar de uma forma mais livre, menos dramática e com menos firulas do que as gerações anteriores. E vou explicar por quê: nós estamos quebrando protocolos sociais.
Sabe aquele seu Tio Francis que despreza seu sonho de trabalhar com desenvolvimento de videogames e sempre que tem a chance fala mal do seu cabelo? Então, ao contrário do que dizem seus outros parentes, Tio Francis não te ama. Esse não é o jeitinho dele de demonstrar afeto. Ele não fala essas coisas porque se preocupa com o seu futuro. Tio Francis é apenas um escroto. Ele gosta de te colocar pra baixo.
Os nossos pais, tios e avós tem o costume de dar muita corda pro Tio Francis, tanto o seu, quanto os Tios Francis individuais de cada um deles. Mandam felicidades no aniversário, fazem reuniões de família para visitá-lo, montam grupo no WhatsApp pra compartilhar umas piadas sem graça e trocadilhos infames feitos com emojis. Essa relação com o Tio Francis, que só traz amargura pra sua vida (seja na forma de reprovação da sua profissão, de desprezo pela sua escolha religiosa ou orientação sexual, de comentários infelizes a respeito da pessoa que você ama) é empurrada com a barriga pra manter aparências e status quo.
E quem se fode nessa equação? Vocezinha(o), que tem que manter na sua vida relações horrorosas baseadas numa eterna punheta social por algum motivo bizarro, como para não machucar os sentimentos da Vovó Matilda, que é mãe do Tio Francis. Ou porque vai ficar chato pro seu irmão, que trabalha na firma dele. Pra quem não sacou até agora, Tio Francis é uma metáfora pra qualquer amigo, “primo de consideração”, parente, namorado ou colega de trabalho. Às vezes, Tio Francis é aquele cara que emprestou uma grana pro seu pai quando ele tava falido. Outras, ele é aquele primo que é racista e homofóbico, mas-é-um-amor-de-pessoa.
E aí que tá: as pessoas da nossa geração não estão dispostas a participar disso. A gente tá de saco cheio de preservar relações tóxicas por causa dos pudores ou pendências de outrem. Nós cortamos o laço mesmo, porque a gente não precisa disso pra viver. Não vamos telefonar, não vamos na festinha de aniversário e com alegria perderemos aquela oportunidade única de visitar o Tio Francis. Não queremos casamentos falidos pra manter aparências, amizades sanguessugas, relações familiares que te consomem e te fazem sentir a criatura mais inútil do planeta. Precisamos, sim, de gente que nos ama, que nos ampara, que aceita as nossas maluquices, ambições e júbilo ao compartilhar um post de gatinhos vestidos como personagens de Game of Thrones.
Aquele papo de que relacionamentos exigem sacrifícios, de que o amor dói mesmo, que relações são difíceis e exigentes, pra gente não tá mais colando. O que é querido, o que eu prezo e quero perto de mim, não é pra machucar. Não é pra doer nem pra me fazer sofrer, é pra ser gostoso, é pra dar aconchego, harmonia e tesão. A gente curte o amor-pássaro do Rubem Alves, que é livre para voar, mas daí pra ele cagar periodicamente na nossa cabeça já não dá.
As nossas relações, pra quem vem de outro background (que carrega consigo outros costumes e hábitos), podem parecer vazias e apenas virtuais, mas não são. Nós encontramos pessoas queridas com tanta frequência como se fazia antigamente? Talvez sim, talvez não. Eu vejo meus amigos mais próximos uma vez por semana. Outros, nunca vi pessoalmente, conheço só pela internet. O que posso dizer é que esses laços são muito intensamente vividos e aproveitados; o nosso tempo (que é raro, porque a gente trabalha pra cacete num sistema falsamente meritocrático e contraprodutivo inventado por pessoas como o Tio Francis) é gasto naquilo que realmente nos interessa e com pessoas que de fato nos fazem sentir bem.
A gente também não se sente culpado por ter relações curtas. Qual o problema de transar com aquele cara do Tinder e nunca mais ligar, se vocês só queriam sexo mesmo? Ou aquela amizade de verão maravilhosa, que foi boa enquanto durou? Pra que tentar ficar achando significado e profundidade em lugares que não precisam disso? A gente já superou o carpe diem, o neoqeav, o nada-acontece-por-acaso e estamos em paz com a noção de que relações humanas não duram — e nem precisam durar — para sempre. E isso não significa que somos frios, afinal a gente faz vaquinha virtual pra financiar o projeto artístico, intercâmbio e cirurgia do cachorro de gente que nem conhecemos.
Portanto, caros antecessores e precedentes, acho legal avaliar e compreender que fazer as coisas de um jeito diferente do de vocês (e isso vale pra relações humanas, formação, empregos e modus operandi no geral) não significa fazer errado. Pode ser que a gente queira abraçar o mundo, salvar todos os golfinhos e criar o milésimo grupo de apoio para algum problema (sério, vocês já viram quantos a gente faz?). Mas talvez a motivação pra falar tão mal da nossa geração seja, bem lá no fundo, o desejo de ter a nossa fluidez.
Formada em publicidade e ainda não sabe o que fazer com isso.
Some years ago, right after we caught our breath from the financial crisis, I took my then-young-teenaged son to dinner to celebrate the end of the school year. He got to choose the restaurant; naturally, he chose a steak house.
As we were being seated, I recognized Dick Fuld. The Dick Fuld. Former CEO of Lehman Brothers, whom I had covered as a research analyst at Bernstein. I stopped, said hello, met his daughter, and introduced my son.
As we walked to our table, I thought, “Great. A teaching moment.”
When we sat, I said, “Honey, that was Dick Fuld and he…”
My son cut me off…with energy. “You don’t have to tell me who Dick Fuld is. I know who Dick Fuld is! He shouldn’t be at dinner; he should be in jail!!” He went on and on and on…..about the financial crisis, about the collapse of Lehman Brothers, about his views on greed on Wall Street. I kid you not. These were not topics we were discussing at home, though we had certainly been living the financial crisis. I thought he was too young to “get it” or have any interest.
And, let’s just say, his views on Wall Street were not positive.
Uh-oh, I thought.
I said to him, “Honey, you know I work on Wall Street, don’t you?”
His reply: “I know. I Googled you. You’re one of the good guys.”
Whew!
Fast forward to this summer. My daughter is interning for me: she’s doing a bit of research, grabbing coffee for the team, watching us build product. We’re all in an office the size of a larger-than-average broom closet: one in which I can’t get out of my chair without ramming the back of our lead designer.
At one point, as we were heading home one day, I said to her, “Funny, isn’t it? I used to have an office many times the size of this for just me, I had a driver, I had a jet, I had fresh-baked cookies.”
Her response: “So what? Sure, the money’s not as good, but look at how much happier you are, Mom, than in your last job. You’re creating something and you’re trying to make a difference in the lives of women.”
I promise you, I’m not making this up. Not a word of it. I was floored.
I’ve written about the handful of smart things I did as working mom. One thought to add: Why should we work as though our children are watching?
Because they are.
Even if we don’t think they are, they are.
Sallie Krawcheck is the Chair of Ellevate Network and Ellevate Asset Management. Ellevate Network is a professional woman’s network, operating across industries and around the world. Both businesses are committed to the full economic and financial engagement of women.
Originally published at www.linkedin.com on August 3, 2015.
Ellevate Network, Ellevate Asset Management...past head of Merrill Lynch & Smith Barney ....past research analyst.....mom....crazed UNC basketball fan
Sharing our ideas and experiences
According to the Harvard Business Review, 41% of women working in tech eventually end up leaving the field (compared to just 17% of men), and I can understand why…
I first learned to code at age 16, and am now in my 30s. I have a math PhD from Duke. I still remember my pride in a “knight’s tour” algorithm that I wrote in C++ in high school; the awesome mind warp of an interpreter that can interpret itself (a Scheme course my first semester of college); my fascination with numerous types of matrix factorizations in C in grad school; and my excitement about relational databases and web scrapers in my first real job.
Over a decade after I first learned to program, I still loved algorithms, but felt alienated and depressed by tech culture. While at a company that was a particularly poor culture fit, I was so unhappy that I hired a career counselor to discuss alternative career paths. Leaving tech would have been devastating, but staying was tough.
I’m not the stereotypical male programmer in his early 20s looking to “work hard, play hard”. I do work hard, but I’d rather wake up early than stay up late, and I was already thinking ahead to when my husband and I would need to coordinate our schedules with daycare drop-offs and pick-ups. Kegerators and ping pong tables don’t appeal to me. I’m not aggressive enough to thrive in a combative work environment. Talking to other female friends working in tech, I know that I’m not alone in my frustrations.
When researcher Kieran Snyder interviewed 716 women who left tech after an average tenure of 7 years, almost all of them said they liked the work itself, but cited discriminatory environments as their main reason for leaving. In NSF-funded research, Nadya Fouad surveyed 5,300 women who had earned engineering degrees (of all types) over the last 50 years, and only 38% of them are still working as engineers. Fouad summarized her findings on why they leave with “It’s the climate, stupid!”
This is a huge, unnecessary, and expensive loss of talent in a field facing a supposed talent shortage. Given that tech is currently one of the major drivers of the US economy, this impacts everyone. Any tech company struggling to hire and retain as many employees as they need should particularly care about addressing this problem.

Nobody wants to think of themselves as being sexist. However, a number of studies have shown that identical job applications or resumes are evaluated differently based on whether they are labeled with a male or female name. When men and women read identical scripts containing entrepreneurial pitches or salary negotiations, they are evaluated differently. Both men and women have been shown to have these biases. These biases occur unconsciously and without intention or malice.
Here is a sampling of just a few of the studies on unconscious gender bias:
Most concerningly, a study from Yale researchers shows that perceiving yourself as objective is actually correlated with showing even more bias. The mere desire to not be biased is not enough to overcome decades of cultural conditioning and can even lend more credence to post-hoc justifications. Acknowledging that you have biases that conflict with your values does not make you a bad person. It’s a natural result of our culture. The important thing is to find ways to eliminate them. Blindly believing your company is a meritocracy not only does not make it so, but will actually make it even harder to address implicit bias.
Bias is typically justified post-hoc. Our initial subconscious impression of the female applicant is negative, and then we find logical reasons to justify it. For instance, in the above study by Yale researchers if the male applicant for police chief had more street smarts and the female applicant had more formal education, evaluators decided that street smarts were the most important trait, and if the names were reversed, evaluators decided that formal education was the most important trait.

Because of the high attrition rate for women working in tech, teaching more girls and women to code is not enough to solve this problem. Because of the above well-documented differences in how men and women are perceived, training women to negotiate better and be more assertive is also not enough to solve this problem. Female voices are perceived as less logical and less persuasive than male voices. Women are perceived negatively for being too assertive. If tech culture is going to change, everyone needs to change, especially men and most especially leaders.
The professional and emotional costs to women for speaking out about discrimination can be large (in terms of retaliation, being perceived as less employable or difficult to work with, or companies then seeking to portray them as poor performers). I know a number of female software engineers who will privately share stories of sexism with trusted friends that we are not willing to share publicly because of the risk. This is why it is important to proactively address this issue. There is more than enough published research and personal stories from those who have chosen to publicly share to confirm that this is a widespread issue in the tech industry.
Change is possible. Although these are schools and not tech companies, Harvey Mudd and Harvard Business School provide inspiring case studies. Strong leaders at both schools enacted sweeping changes to address previously male-centric cultures. Harvey Mudd has raised the percentage of computer science majors that are women to 40% (the national average is 18%). The top 5% of Harvard Business School graduates rose from being approximately 20% women to closer to 40% and the GPA gap between men and women closed, all within one year of making a number of comprehensive, structural changes.

These recommendations on what companies could do to improve their cultures are based on a mix of research and personal experience. My goal is to have a positive focus, and I would love it if you walked away with at least one concrete goal for making constructive change at your company.
It is very common at tech start-ups to promote talented engineers to management without providing them with any management training or oversight, particularly at rapidly growing companies where existing leadership is stretched thin. These new managers are often not aware of any of the research on motivation, human psychology, or bias. Untrained, unsupervised managers cause more harm to women than men, although regardless, all employees would benefit from new managers receiving training, mentorship, and supervision.
In the Yale study mentioned above regarding applicants for police chief, getting participants to formalize their hiring criteria before they looked at applications (i.e. deciding if formal education or street smarts was more important) reduced bias. I was once on a team where the hiring criteria were amorphous and where the manager frequently overrode majority votes by the team because of “gut feeling”. It seemed like unconscious bias played a large role in decisions, but because of our haphazard approach to hiring, there was no way of truly knowing.
Leadership sets the values and culture for a company, so the onus is on them to make it clear that they value diversity. Younger engineers and managers will follow their perceptions of what executives value. In the cases of positive change at Harvey Mudd and Harvard Business School, leadership at the top was spearheading these initiatives. Intel is going to begin tying executives’ compensation to whether they achieve diversity goals on their teams. As Kelly Shuster, director for the Denver chapter of Women Who Code has pointed out, leaders have to get rid of employees who engage in sexist or racist behavior. Otherwise, the company is at risk of losing talented employees, and is sending a message to all employees that discrimination is okay.
There is a well-documented confidence gap between men and women. Don’t rely on people nominating themselves for promotions or to get the most interesting projects, since women are less likely to put themselves forward. Google relies on employees nominating themselves for promotions and data revealed that women were much less likely to do so (and thus much less likely to receive promotions). When senior women began hosting workshops encouraging women to nominate themselves, the number of women at Google receiving promotions increased. Groups are more likely to pick male leaders because of their over-confidence, compared to more qualified women who are less confident. Don’t rely heavily on self-evaluations in performance scoring. Women perceive their abilities as being worse than they are, whereas men have an inflated sense of their abilities.
Confirm that men and women with the same qualifications are earning the same amount and that they are receiving promotions and raises at similar rates (and if not, explore why). Make sure that gendered criticism (such as calling a woman strident or abrasive) is not used in performance reviews. The trend of tech companies releasing their diversity statistics is a good one, but given the high industry attrition rate for women, they should also start releasing their retention rates broken down by gender. I would like to see companies release statistics on the rates at which women are given promotions or raises compared to men, and how performance evaluation scores compare between men and women. By publicly sharing data, companies can hold themselves accountable and can track changes over time.
A culture that rewards facetime and encourages people to regularly stay late or eat dinner at the office puts employees with families at a disadvantage (particularly mothers), and research shows that working excess hours does not actually improve productivity in the long-term since workers begin to experience burn out after just a few weeks. Furthermore, when employees burn out and quit, the cost of recruiting and hiring a new employee is typically 20% of the annual salary for that position.
Stanford research studies document that women are more likely to dislike competitive environments compared to men and are more likely to select out of them, regardless of their ability. Given that women are perceived negatively for being too assertive, it is tougher for women to succeed in a highly aggressive environment as well. Men who speak up more than their peers are rewarded with 10% higher ratings, whereas women who speak up more are punished with 14% lower ratings. Creating a competitive culture where people must fight for their ideas makes it much tougher for women to succeed.
Over 10% of the 716 women who left tech in Kieran Snyder’s research left because of inadequate maternity leave. Several were pressured to return from leave early or to be on call while on leave. These women did not want to be stay-at-home-parents, they just wanted to recover after giving birth. Just as you would not pressure someone to return to work without recovery time after a major surgery, women need time to physically heal after delivering a baby. When Google increased paid maternity leave from 12 weeks to 18 weeks, the number of new moms who quit Google dropped by 50%.

There is a huge amount of research on unconscious racial bias, and tech companies need to address this issue. As Nichole Sanchez, VP of Social Impact at GitHub, describes, calls for diversity are often solely about adding more white women, which is deeply problematic. Racial bias adds another intersectional dimension to the discrimination that women of color experience. In interviews with 60 women of color who work in STEM research, 100% of them had experienced discrimination, and the particular negative stereotypes they faced differed depending on their race. A resume with a traditionally African-American sounding name is less likely to be called for an interview than the same resume with a traditionally white sounding name. I do not have the personal experience to speak about this topic and instead encourage you to read these blog posts and articles by and about tech workers of color on the challenges they’ve faced: Erica Baker (Slack engineer, former Google engineer), Justin Edmund (designer, Pinterest’s 7th employee), Aston Motes (Engineer, Dropbox’s 1st employee), and Angelica Coleman (developer advocate at Zendesk, formerly at Dropbox).

I’m currently teaching software development at all-women Hackbright Academy, a job that I love and that suits me perfectly. I want all women to have the opportunity (and I mean truly have the opportunity, without implicit or explicit discrimination) to learn how to program — knowing software development provides so many career and financial possibilities; it’s intellectually rewarding and fun; and being a creator is deeply satisfying. Although I know many women with frustrating experiences of sexism, I also know women who have found companies where they’re happily thriving. I’m glad for the attention tech’s diversity problem has been receiving and I am hopeful about continued change.
Thanks for review, edits, and discussion to: Jeremy Howard and Angie Chang.
hackbright instructor, math phd, software developer, @math_rachel
BY JON WESTENBERG
When you admire someone’s success, and tell them that their work has great meaning for you, the reaction of most people is to downplay your compliment.
There’s the standard response:
There’s the awkward line:
And then, there’s the insincerity of:
The same thing happens when people show their work. It’s always with caveats, with disclaimers and with phrases meant to distract you from the simple fact that they’re proud of themselves.
But we don’t need to play that game. When something we have worked on is good, and we know it’s good, and others say it’s good, there’s no reason to try and look humble, or to attempt to sidestep the praise. Because at the end of the day…
I think there’s two reasons that creatives and entrepreneurs dance the humble shuffle and hide their pride:

The first reason is that we’re conditioned to avoid and reject praise. This happens from a young age. Everyone is told that they shouldn’t seem arrogant or full of themselves. Bringing others down a peg or two is considered to be a good thing. How shitty is that?
We are all like that. Me, you, everybody. If you think you’re not, you need to work on being honest with yourself.
The effect of it is that when we finish work, no matter how good it is, even if it’s the single greatest accomplishment of our lives, we’re scared that others will want to cut us down or criticise us if we seem to happy with ourselves. We want to protect our egos by pre-empting negative reactions and distancing ourselves from what we’ve finished even as we try to entice others to experience what we’ve made.
So we send out our work and we say:
You know what we should be saying?

Here’s the second reason. We just don’t think that we should be the ones talking about what we’ve done. That’s for others to do.
We feel too awkward to talk about how well we think we did.
That’s why we pretend to be no big deal, and when we stand up to accept our Oscar-MTV-Startup awards we claim that we are humbled to be there, and all the credit really goes to our managers or boyfriends or that guy who makes our bagels in the morning.
But do you know what the problem is? In the end, there’s only one person who can really communicate about you and your accomplishments. And that’s you.
If you want to wait for others to talk about your work and sing the praises of what you’ve put out there into the black hole of the internet, you can go right ahead. But you’re missing out on your chance to share your journey.
Oh, and you’ll be waiting a long time.

It really is time we let go of both sincere and insincere modesty. I know that over the last few months I have worked harder than ever before to become a writer and to hone my craft. That hard work hasn’t happened at a desk, 9–5. It’s happened on the train home at the end of the day. I write half of my posts on my phone when I’m heading to the gym at 6 in the morning.
So when I finish a piece, when I finally drag it kicking and screaming over the word count, I don’t distance myself from it. I tell my closest friends, look at this thing that I managed to pull out of myself when it was late at night and I could have been doing a dozen other things.
I’m proud of my writing. I really am. And you should be proud too. Proud of your work, your company, your app, your brand new song, that 5 page film script with the three flashbacks and the dream sequences. You should be proud of the lines of code you slaved over and the UI that nobody is going to notice because it’s so bloody perfect.


Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

“Jack of all trades. Master of none.”
The warning against being a generalist has persisted for hundreds of years in dozens of languages.
“Equipped with knives all over, yet none is sharp,” warned people in China. In Estonia, it went, “Nine trades, the tenth one — hunger.”
Yet, many of the most impactful individuals — both contemporary and historical — have been generalists: Elon Musk, Steve Jobs, Arianna Huffington, Ben Franklin, Leonardo Da Vinci,and Marie Curie.
Are these legends just genius anomalies? Or are they models that we can all learn from?
My research over the past year shows that the latter is true. There is a surprisingly strong link between diversity of relationships / knowledge(being a generalist) and career success.
Many people fail to become successful generalists because schools and society tend to encourage focus on a single expertise. As a result, few ever develop the necessary skillset.
The good news is that with practice and some of the tools in this article, anyone can become a successful generalist.

Meeting new people outside of our current circles and learning outside of our expertise is hard and hard to justify.
For example, if you’re a marketing executive, it’s much easier to justify reading the latest marketing book than it is to read a classic book on evolutionary biology. Yet, reading that biology book might give you a completely novel idea that no one else in your field has.
In confronting this challenge, we must embrace the paradox of the usefulness of useless knowledge as poignantly shared by Nobel Laureate, Richard Feynman:
Here are six concrete strategies from some of the world’s top generalists (who also happen to be millionaire and billionaire entrepreneurs) to help you efficiently and systematically explore new areas…

Ray Dalio is the founder of the largest hedge fund in the world, Bridgewater Associates, which has $169+ billion under management. His approach is based on a set of fundamental principles, which he explains in a 117-page treatise, which I summarized.
Core to Dalio’s philosophy is becoming an independent thinker rather than focusing on what you are taught by others:
In other words, according to Dalio, the key to being a successful investor is finding when the consensus is wrong and having an independent opinion that is right.
The same principle holds true in other fields such as venture capital. Famous technology investor, Peter Thiel, selects the founders he backs in part by asking them what they strongly believe that no one else does.
According to Dalio, the first step to becoming an independent thinker is to understand reality deeply. In order to do this early in his career, he ordered all the annual reports of Fortune 500 companies and worked his way through the most interesting ones and formed opinions.
Warren Buffett took a similar approach. According to the book, Outsiders, he has kept up a habit of reading 3 annual reports a day for his entire career. When asked how to get smarter, Buffett once held up stacks of paper and said, “Read 500 pages like this every day. That’s how knowledge builds up, like compound interest.”
Charlie Munger’s success as one of the world’s top investors and Warren Buffett’s longtime business partner did not come from having a laser-like focus on investment theory. Rather, he studied widely and deeply in many fields, including microeconomics, psychology, law, mathematics, biology, and engineering, and applied insights from these fields to investing.
Munger’s rules and quotes are excerpted from various talks that he’s given, which are featured in his book, Poor Charlie’s Almanack.



Charlie Munger famously stated, “In my whole life, I have known no wise people (over a broad subject matter area) who didn’t read all the time — none.” Emerson Spartz, 28, embodies this ideal.
He dropped out of school at 12, taught himself to speed read, and created his own wide-ranging curriculum. Spartz has now read thousands of books, for awhile even averaging a book per day.
Spartz’s broad reading brought him to the conclusion that, “There are no original ideas. There are just people who aren’t widely read enough to realize their ideas aren’t original.”
Over time, Spartz developed theories on how to make sites go viral. He successfully tested those theories on Facebook Pages; many of which acquired millions of fans. He then progressed to testing his theories with media properties. Today, his company, Spartz Media, is a network of sites (like Dose.com and OMG Facts) with 45+ million visitors per month.
Spartz’s company uses a research and repurpose strategy. A proprietary algorithm finds trending articles with certain qualities and repurposes them for the site’s unique audience.
“In my experience,” Spartz says, “it is much faster and less risky to read more widely and repurpose what is already working, or has worked somewhere else, than to attempt to come up with an idea that you think is original but actually isn’t.”
While most people in our society put their attention into what’s new andpopular, Jason Duff, an Ohio entrepreneur, does the exact opposite. In his real estate endeavors, this means finding historic real estate properties that are undervalued and restoring them, rather than building new properties.
This approach has helped him create hundreds of jobs in his community and build several multimillion dollar businesses.
Duff’s key insight is that wisdom — and value — can be found in the old. The Lindy Effect demonstrates this idea; for every additional day an idea or technology survives, it becomes more likely it will survive longer into the future.
While we tend to assume the newest releases and latest editions will be the most relevant, seeking out classic ideas that have stood the test of time often hold the most unique insights.
Famous science fiction author, William Gibson, once said, “The future is already here — it’s just not very evenly distributed.”
Ryan Simonetti, co-founder of Convene, has built a team of 150+ employees through a unique approach of finding clues of the future in today’s world:
“As an entrepreneur, I’ve found a powerful approach to finding clues is looking for ‘edge cases’ (i.e., extreme users and early adopters of new technology) and then deeply listening to those users in order to understand their unmet needs,” Simonetti says.
“The toughest thing for anybody is to understand what it means to be truly objective and look at the world from someone else’s perspective. In my experience, the best way to do this is the ‘Ask, Observe, Engage’ approach, which is an integral part of design thinking:
Bottom line: look for those edge case users that will define your business and learn deeply from them by asking questions of, observing, and engaging them.
Arianna Huffington started her career as an author, became a journalist, ran for governor, and ultimately founded one of the fastest growing media companies in history, The Huffington Post.
Changing careers and exploring new ideas means letting go of all the time you invested going down one path. It means reinventing your identity, building new relationships, and letting go of limiting beliefs.
When I asked what allowed her to be be so radically open, she related it back to one concept — a “life audit” she did at age 40.
The exercise revealed to Huffington that many of the goals she had committed to in her head (learning German, becoming a good skier, etc.) simply weren’t getting done. Rather than continuing to stress over the goals she wasn’t achieving, she instead chose to consciously remove them from her list and focus on the goals that mattered most to her. This gave her more energy to pursue life-changing business opportunities on the horizon.
Research backs this up. Every day, each of us wastes valuable brainpower holding on to commitments we’ve made that are no longer realistic or important.
If you’ve ever killed yourself trying to meet an unreasonable deadline or shown up ridiculously late to a meeting instead of just rescheduling, you know exactly how much of an energy suck these inessential commitments can be.
“One of the best ways to open up your life to new possibilities is… not by adding new things, but by dropping things that no longer serve you,” Huffington said. “This not only means removing things you’re doing now, but shouldn’t be. It also means removing things from your mind that you think you should be doing, but realistically never will.”

So, expert or generalist?
Perhaps it’s not one or the other.
It’s time for a new model; one that considers the benefits of being a specialist and a generalist.
Perhaps, the winning formula is being what Orit Gadiesh, chairman of Bain (a multi-billion dollar consulting company) calls an ‘expert-generalist’. Gadiesh explains it like this:
“An expert-generalist is someone who has the ability and curiosity to master and collect expertise in many different disciplines, industries, skills, capabilities, countries, and topics and then:
The approach has differentiated Bain from its competitors and has propelled Gadiesh’s career.
Gadiesh goes wide by reading 100+ books a year including novels [in the language of the country she’s visiting] and books on physics, mathematics, history, biographies, and art.
Then, she goes deep by applying “cold, hard intellectual discipline”, and ruthlessly letting go of theories that she has fallen in love with, but that don’t hold up when examined with data.

The traditional narrative is that being a generalist is something you could only do decades or hundreds of years ago when business and science were less developed; when a single scientist could serendipitously discover an amazing medicine like penicillin growing around mold and usher in an era of life-saving antibiotics.
This narrative is misleading to the point of being wrong.
Yes, scientific discoveries require larger teams on average, according to research by Brian Uzzi, a professor at the Northwestern University Kellogg School of Management, who analyzed 26+ million scientific papers going back hundreds of years.
But the reason that teams are successful is not just because of more resources and deeper expertise; it’s also because those team members come from different disciplines and are able to cross-fertilize their insights into atypical, breakthrough combinations.
According to the discipline of scientometrics, the amount of academic research is doubling every 9 years and the number disciplines is growing exponentially. The same is true for the number of business industries.
What does this all mean?
As more business industries and scientific disciplines emerge, there are more opportunities to create breakthrough ideas by combining fields in atypical ways. We literally have the world’s knowledge at our finger tips.
It’s a good time to be an expert-generalist.
* * * * *
As a resource for this article, I put together a 13-page report you can download at no cost. It summarizes Ray Dalio’s very unique approaching to coming up with independent opinions that are true. I put it together because I didn’t see another summary anywhere else that was easy to comprehend or apply.
* * * * *
Other Articles In My Generalist Series
* * * *
Special thanks to Ian Chew and Sheena Lindahl who volunteered their time to edit this article and do research.
* * * *
Disclosure: Some of the contributors featured in this article are members ofSeminal, a selective council that distills research-backed, actionable insights from world-class entrepreneurs and leaders.
* * * * *
Michael Simmons writes at MichaelDSimmons.com and is co-founder of Empact. To receive more articles like this one, visit his blog.
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
O caso é verídico, eu estava presente e posso confirmar. Em uma reunião entre os gestores de uma determinada empresa um dos sócios colocou na mesa uma sugestão:
- Vamos comprar uma enorme piroca de pelúcia.
Os demais não levaram muito a sério, afinal aquele que apresentou a ideia tinha o hábito de fazer sugestões divertidas, geralmente como uma forma bem humorada de crítica.
- Sério, vamos comprar uma pica de pelúcia. Uma enorme, assim, quase do tamanho de uma pessoa.- Sério mesmo?- Sim, e todo funcionário ao chegar vai bater uma foto abraçada com ela.- E pra quê?- Porque essa será nossa política: essa pica também é minha.
E faz sentido.
Um dos grandes problemas de se gerir uma operação é justamente a cultura do "a minha parte eu fiz" ou do "ah, mas isso aí não é comigo". Nada explica melhor essa cultura do que uma historinha que costumam contar no meio empresarial de São Paulo para "ajustar" os mais idealistas.
Tem um quê de sabedoria corporativa, não nego. Eu mesmo lidei com situações assim em São Paulo. Chegando em um novo emprego tive o desprazer de participar de uma reunião com umas 12 pessoas que passaram cerca de 2h discutindo de quem era a culpa por uma falha em uma campanha. Cansado levantei a mão e larguei "opa, a culpa é minha, podemos voltar a trabalhar?". Levei um belo esporro por ter "assumido" uma culpa que não podia ser minha afinal eu havia acabado de chegar. Oras, isso me parecia óbvio, claro que a culpa não era minha, eu queria mesmo era acabar com a discussão e mostrar o quanto aquele bate boca estava sendo improdutivo. E caro. Queria provar um ponto apenas. O interessante é que a maior parte das pessoas na reunião achou minha ação satisfatória, fingindo não ter percebido a alfinetada, ficando feliz por ter se livrado daquela "pica" mesmo.
Essa política precisa mudar. Todos precisam ser responsáveis pelo resultado final, todos precisam se preocupar em resolver, em entregar. Recentemente li Criatividade S/A, livro escrito por Edwin Catmull, um dos fundadores da Pixar. No livro ele fala de como as coisas melhoraram na empresa quando ele conseguiu implantar uma cultura onde todos eram responsáveis pelo controle de qualidade, onde qualquer um, independente da posição hierárquica, poderia apontar falhas ou fazer sugestões. Uma cultura pela qualidade, pela solução, pela responsabilidade com o todo. Detalhe, isso antes da Disney. E, falando em Disney, essa é uma cultura que eles prezam muito lá, vejam esse caso que tive conhecimento nessa semana, narrado por Claudio Nasajon.
E você, "escolhe a menor e senta em cima" ou acredita que "essa pica também é sua"?
Gostou do texto? Se gostou clica aí no "recommend", logo abaixo, e ajude mais pessoas a conhecê-lo.
A primeira publicação brasileira no Medium. Uma produção colaborativa de histórias e tendências para instigar você!


Yes, we get it. Google is not a conventional company. Larry Page said so in the first letter to shareholders when the company went public in 2004. And in case we missed this, Page repeated the quote today when announcing that Google, as it existed before August 10, 2015, would thereafter be known as Alphabet. Most of the stuff we interact with from Google — search, ads, YouTube, Gmail, and Android — will be part of just one of several companies under the Alphabet umbrella. At least that company will retain the familiar name.
The other companies — including Google X, Fiber, Calico, Nest, Sidewalk, and Google Ventures — will be fully owned, but separate, each with its own CEO and finances. In that sense, Google will be like Warren Buffett’s universally admired Berkshire Hathaway, a conglomeration of firms bound only by its ownership.
No one expects Alphabet to operate in the hands-off manner with which Buffett oversees his empire. Page, as CEO of the whole enchilada, will make sure that no executive in his domain will be chief enough to buck his philosophy of thinking big, exploiting technology at scale, and snubbing convention.
The question is, how separate will those companies be? The sense I get at Google is that this new structure is but an evolution of a process begun when Page stepped back from everyday operations last October and turned over much of Google’s product functions to his key lieutenant Sundar Pichai (who now becomes the CEO of Google lite). But Google…er, Alphabet, has seemingly crossed a line by structuring its divisions as separate companies in the Berkshire Hathaway model. At this point, neither Page or anyone else has indicated how thick that line is.
And that’s important. For many years, observers have expressed puzzlement at Google’s adventuresome propensity to generate divisions seemingly built on non sequiturs. What did self-driving cars have to do with search? Can you sell ads with smart thermostats? But when you scratched the surface, you could always figure how such ventures actually did promote Google’s core business. For instance, self-driving cars are huge consumers of Google Maps, and if people are liberated from driving they can do more web searching.
You could regard those crazy moonshots as wild blood injected into the core business, a perpetual antidote to corporate anemia. Because these divisions were part of Google itself, they could easily share their innovations with the part of the company that consumers used daily. When a team inside Google X invented a learning system informally called the Google Brain, it was soon moved to Google’s Knowledge division to enhance the search engine. Will that process be so easily repeated when Google X is run as a separate company? Or will the research division’s CEO be able to decide that his own firm would be better off selling the team to Microsoft or Yahoo? (I put the question to the company formerly known as Google, and didn’t get an answer. I’m not even sure that the answer to that has been determined.)
Or consider the role of Tony Fadell, the once and future CEO of Nest, the company Google bought for $3.2 billion in January 2014. Nest now becomes one of the separate Google companies, which may not make much difference because Google was letting Fadell run it as a quasi-independent duchy. But because Nest was part of the larger enterprise, Fadell had been tapped for broader responsibilities at Google, including the reinvention of Google Glass. Will he now relinquish that role to once again run Nest as a single entity? (Nest told me it wasn’t revealing any details in addition to Page’s statement.)
And what about Fiber, the division of Google devoted to installing and operating high-speed Internet? As I understand it, the mission of Fiber was not necessarily to make money from subscribers but to hasten a higher-speed infrastructure that would make Google’s core products more attractive and profitable. Will its new CEO now have to change direction in order to burnish his own bottom line? (Actually, that could be really interesting — if Fiber bulked up to be a major Internet provider rather than a burgeoning experiment, it might really jolt the incumbents.)
Obviously, Alphabet is not going full Berkshire Hathaway here. In Buffett’s world, an innovation made at Fruit of the Loom does not quickly get shared at Dairy Queen or Geico. But with Alphabet, Page is granting his divisions at least a measure of more autonomy — and an incentive to optimize for the one and not for the all. As Page writes, “Alphabet is about businesses prospering through strong leaders and independence.” It will be fascinating to see how this plays out.
Scrabble, anyone?
Follow Backchannel: Twitter | Facebook
I’m starting a tech hub at Medium.
Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

by Jeremy StewartIllustrations by Rob Hudak
If you’re like me at all, you love a good joke that’s related to web development. Here are a few I‘ve thought up over the years. Some are good, some are cheesy, but all are guaranteed to have you laughing at your computer terminal for hours.
Q: Why did the web designer drown?A: She didn’t know if she should float:left or float:right.
Q: Why was the web developer fired from his job?A: He was getting too Sassy.
Alternate version:
Q: Why was the web developer fired from her job?A: She did Less every day.
Q: What did the Southern web developer say when he found out his team stopped using version control?A: Y’all better Git!
Q: Why did the developer stay home from work?A: She had a code!
Q: How did the scrawny web developer put on some muscle?A: He started using flexbox (with float fallbacks for older versions of IE).
Q: Why was the JavaScript reality show cancelled after only one episode?A: People thought it seemed scripted.
Q: How can you tell that a web developer is working?A: You can hear him Grunting!
A junior developer panicked when he realized he didn’t know how to initiate a secure shell session to a remote machine. As he became more upset and his voice grew louder, his boss — the senior developer — took notice and tried to quiet him down. With his finger pressed to the young developers lips, the senior developer calmly whispered, “SSH.”
Q: Why does no one like jokes about descriptions, keywords, or character encodings?A: They’re too ‘meta’.
Q: Why was the iOS developer always so sleepy?A: She wasn’t given any Java.
Update: Four great jokes submitted by Shawn Bailly:
Q: Why did the IP cross the subnet?A: Because the NAT said to!
Q: Why couldn’t the variable enter the JavaScript store?A: It was (Closured())!
Q: Why was the class upset that its parent died?A: Because it wouldn’t be getting the inheritance!
Q: Why did the class attend the gay pride parade?A: It supported polymorphism.
Wonderful joke by @sharonlin:
Q: Why don’t web developers get along with others?A: They’re too MEAN.

Do you have a funny web development joke of your own? Comment it on this article or submit a pull request here!
Developer, dog owner, design lover. Full stack developer, haiku writer. I build responsive, accessible websites.

Few things in life are constant: death, taxes, and strangers asking “So what do you do?” within a minute of a handshake.
As a UX designer, I’ve had a lot of practice over the years trying to nail down my answer.
Here’s what I’ve come up with:
It’s my job to be inside a user’s brain. I need to look at design from the mindspace of a user (actually, lots of users) and squash potential problems or confusion.
This never-ending process requires keeping UX present before, during, and after the build is complete. It’s always a challenge to act with the user in mind — influences like due dates and bottom lines sometimes cloud the way.
To help keep your product on the right path, I’ve assembled a list of 5 UX principles I use to guide my design process. Understanding how and why to make UX decisions goes a long way in explaining things to others on the team, which goes an even longer way in getting said UX decisions into the final product.
Good design is easy to digest — the brain shouldn’t have to expend a ton of energy to figure out what the heck it’s looking at. With any luck, people will just “get it” without needing a 6-section explanation.
This goes beyond clear, easy-to-read copy. People sometimes need guidance to make decisions, so a menu with a list of 12 inline items may seem daunting. Organizing with some hierarchy (size, color, icons) can help highlight the more common choices, which allows someone to find what they’re looking for faster.
Another good example of digestible design is the new user guide, often presented as staggered tips that a person can process one at a time. But imagine the opposite, hitting a brand-new user with a whole stack of instructions, removed from the context of the product. No one likes a confusing surprise.
Consider all the decisions you’re asking someone to make with your product to get to the bottom of the funnel. The brain has a limited amount of cognitive resources during the day — using them up needlessly is rude.
Good design is honest. Aside from understanding the words in your value prop, you need the user to understand the actual value. Being coy or unclear about your product isn’t going to win any fans.
Related to value, pricing is an area where clarity is everything. Users aren’t going to click “Buy now” if they can’t figure out what you’re asking them to pay. While shady “free trials” that switch to auto-billing might be the norm, I doubt they’re winning any popularity contests.
This may sound cheesy, but a good plan is to simply follow the Golden Rule. Explain things like you’d want them explained to you. Make things as clear as you can. You know what you’d expect out of the products you choose to use, so don’t you dare build something less.
Good design is easy to trust. Before asking someone to complete an action, make every effort to help them understand why the task is needed. Being honest and clear in explanations builds trust at each step, leading to increasingly easier conversions down the funnel.
Consider Uber (and Lyft, depending on which way you swing). They’ve made catching a ride so easy that a 100-year-old industry is now in chaos. The app saves your payment info, which you might not feel comfortable exchanging with a stranger, and facilitates a trustworthy, painless transaction.
Removing doubt will create a growingly invisible experience. As decisions require less and less resources, using the product becomes easier and more enjoyable.
Ground-breaking design is awesome, but design that converts is better. New frameworks and flashy plugins might look nice on Dribbble, but if no one is clicking the “buy” buttons, you’ve got a problem.
Platform guidelines exist for a reason. While it might seem that making your product look exactly the same from platform to platform is the main goal, be careful to pay respect to the sticky details of each OS. Using familiar patterns, icons, and presentational styles is a great way to look native, even if you’re not.
Testing your solutions on actual devices goes a long way to ensuring things feel at home in each environment, which is where a tool like InVision shines. Pretending to be a user is easier when you’re not also having to pretend to use a device.
It’s been said that an idea isn’t enough anymore, that execution is what wins the war. Ironically, the more the team executes, the less the user has to. The more simplicity you can bring to a complex problem, the more delighted the user will be with your solution.
The ultimate delight is when someone forgets your product is a “product” — where it’s so useful that it doesn’t even read as a product anymore, just simply as some useful thing in a person’s life.
Building thoughtful products with clear intentions shows that you care, makes choices more comfortable, and leads to a better overall experience. And that’s important, because it’s been found that 68% of users giving up did so because they think you don’t care about them (which we know isn’t true!).
It’s easy to judge the user experience of your own product as long as you’re honest with yourself. Walk a mile in someone’s shoes, considering each action in your product from the brainspace of a tired, weary person. Would you click next?
Originally published at blog.invisionapp.com on July 8, 2015.
Prototyping, Collaboration & Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at http://www.InVisionApp.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

In this day and age, it can be hard to keep your child from being exposed to Elon Musk. Although you may do your best on the home front, they may inevitably stumble across a profile piece or news item on TV at a friend’s house or the computer at the school library. For that reason, it’s better to be prepared for your child’s eventual exposure to Elon Musk and to know how to respond to the questions you may be asked.
If your child asks why you’re not a billionaire like Elon Musk.
Tell your child that Elon Musk is highly unusual, as exemplified by his strange name. Tell your child that if your parents had named you Zambor Dweemoflux you might very well have become a billionaire too, but the fact of the matter is you’re stuck with Jim or Linda or Steve and a normal surname. This is a good opportunity to inform them that life isn’t always “fair” and not everyone gets a circus name like Elon Musk or Sepp Blatter that simply lends itself to being crazy wealthy.
If your child asks why Elon Musk seemingly generates amazing ideas on routine trips to the bathroom.
Tell your child that before he/she was born you too had a groundbreaking idea for a rainbow-powered washing machine. Let them know you were on the verge of getting a patent and becoming fabulously wealthy but then they happened. Tell them you selflessly let your dreams die so that you could focus on being a “hands on” parent because Harry Chapin’s Cat’s In The Cradle really freaked you out.
If your child asks why you’ve still failed to build a toolshed in the backyard while Elon Musk creates multiple corporations with the snap of his fingers.
Make sure your child understands that Elon Musk is an abomination created in human form — the love child of two ender-demons, Gorshak and Melkanor from the seventh circle of Hell. Tell him/her that he was born specifically to make everyone else in the world look like serial underachievers and feel bad about themselves. Tell your child that you are “The Chosen One” and that in order to prevent Elon Musk from his nefarious goal of spreading global unhappiness and dissatisfaction with everyone else’s relatively pathetic accomplishments they must never again acknowledge the demon-spawn’s profane victories.
If that doesn’t work, take away your child’s iPad until they stop bringing his name up.
This originally appeared on banterist.com
I self-identify as Brian Sack • www.briansack.com
I think when people are ultra-positive and have this incomparably sunny disposition toward the world, I get turned off. There’s a lot of stuff out there which attempts to make you feel inspired, but ends up leaving you feeling ashamed for being human. It would be easy for me to say:
“Everything happens for a reason!”
“Life is an adventure!”
“Love solves everything!”
“Happiness is a choice!”
These are easy words to say. Easy things to think. Easy, easy, easy. But, their meanings dry up the moment life happens.
I have spent far too many nights feeling ashamed that I couldn’t be more positive, happier, better, stronger. I’d look at these shiny people plastered with positivity and I’d wonder where I went wrong. Why was I so affected by the world? Why didn’t every day feel like an adventure? Don’t these people have to pay bills and have uncomfortable conversations and wake up sometimes with a headache and an axe to grind? Why was I seemingly the only one so deeply affected by the human experience?
I don’t want to be inspired anymore. Inspiration is cheap. It’s easy. It’s flowery. It’s drenched in promises no one can fulfill.
I want to feel understood. I want to feel heard. I want to feel like my weird and twisty and dark thoughts and fears and feelings are not unique to me. I don’t need someone negating my experience in order to provide me with sweet words fluffy as clouds — and just as transparent. I want gritty and real and raw and I’d rather see people fucking up than trying to act as if they never do.
I’m tired of people trying to inspire me to have a better, bigger, happier life. Let me exist. Let me fumble. Let me find the patch of light in the long tunnel of darkness. Let me figure out some shit on my own. I say we need less fake inspiration in this world and more realness. Less doomsday. Less fake happiness. More real shit. Less preaching. More storytelling. Less advice. More community.
I wish people would stop trying to perfect my life. Everybody is selling the magic pill to happiness. Why do I have to be so happy all the time? CAN I LIVE?
I want you to know that you don’t need to fix yourself if you’re not smiling every moment of the day. Sometimes you have very little to be grateful for and that’s okay. Sometimes it’s hard to muster up the energy to be happy with what you have when you want so much more from the world and yourself. That’s okay. It’s okay to be angry and to be kind of dark and weird and not a ball of positivity every moment. Sometimes it’s okay to be bored and to think that happiness is a bit boring because it kind of is. Sometimes it’s fine to be moody and sad and contemplative and to solve problems with a glass of wine or a pizza or some good sex I don’t even know but it’s okay to just not have it all figured out, to have no answers, to just be like, what is the point of anything.
It’s okay to feel like the ground is shaking beneath your feet. It’s okay because everything is temporary. You can lose your footing one day and be on top of the world the next. Things can change in a blink. Happiness is as fleeting as anything else. These fake salespeople who act like they have the cure to being human really grind me up. All they serve to do is make you feel ashamed for not having it all figured out. They sell your aspirational experience and bake shame into it.
Just promise me that the last thing you’ll do is be ashamed of where you’re at in your experience of being a human. Nothing good comes from shame. It’s about the lowest vibrational place you could be operating from. Avoid shame and anything or anyone that causes you shame. Get it all the hell out of your energy field. Shame is not going to motivate you. It’s going to drain you.
If there’s one promise you can make for yourself, let it be this: I will not let myself be ashamed of my unique experience of being human. Forget the positive bullshit: that promise, that mantra, that state of mind is what can really change lives. A person incapable of cowering to shame is a hero — considering all the many reasons our world gives us reasons to be ashamed. To forgo the feeling of shame is an act of radical resistance. Let yourself be. To truly be. What freedom.
If you enjoyed this post, feel free to Recommend it. You can also like my Facebook page or follow me on Twitter.
writer // jamievaron.com
This post was originally published on Rype.
“If only I could have learned Spanish a few years ago…”“If only I learned about investing when I was still in my early twenties…”
If only.
For many of us, there are more things we want to learn than we have time.
As information becomes more readily accesible online, the number of things we want to learn is only continuing to increase. And the only variable we can control is the amount of time we spend learning them.
Shortening the learning curve is a topic that’s been studied for many years, and this guide will cover the fundamental core principles of learning faster. You’d be able to leverage these principles to push yourself to learn faster in any topics including languages, business, musical instruments, and more.
Why reinvent a wheel that’s already been created?
The common tendency we all have when learning something new is trying to master it alone, underestimating the amount of time and effort that can be saved by getting help from someone who’s learnt it.
Think back to a time when you first learned how to speak a new language or a new skill.
You probably had a steep learning curve initially, but after a few years or even months of experimenting and making mistakes, you could design a shortcut to help a friend avoid those same mistakes you made early on.
In order to achieve mastery faster, our first step should be to consult the top players in the field, and model the path they have already carved out for us.
As Tony Robbins puts it:
In this day and age, it’s possible to retrieve almost any solution that’s out there in the form of books, blogs, training videos, consultants, someone in our network — the list goes on.
The next step to hacking the learning curve is to deconstruct the skill into its basic, fundamental components. Break down the parts and find the most important things to practice first.
This is in reference to the popularized Pareto’s Principle, where the goal is to generate 80% of results putting in 20% of the effort.

It turns out that this concept can apply to almost anything in life, including:
Here’s the Pareto graph in a different visual format.

Embracing this way of thinking only goes to show that very few things actually make a difference in any aspect of our lives, including learning.
Our goal then, should be to separate the 20% of our learning materials that will give us 80% of the result.
As it turns out, fast-learning experts have already embraced this ideology, and have provided some concrete examples on how to do this effectively.
In his Ted Talk, Josh Kaufman believes that you don’t need 10,000 hours in order to master a skill. As Kaufman elaborates, the key is to embrace the first 20 hours, and learn the most important subset skills within that time frame to get the maximum amount of impact.
Related topic to learn: Parkinson’s Law
For example:
Multi-tasking is a guilty pleasure we’ve all developed in the age of constant notifications and mobile applications. From checking our emails every ten minutes, to scrolling through our instagram feed, to co-workers coming by our desk for a “five-minute break.”
However, multi-tasking can be one of the biggest hurdles preventing us from learning faster.
Think about your own computer.
When you have 20+ different tabs open on your browser, your computer begins to slow down and it takes longer to process every action afterwards.
Studies have shown that when an individual gets distracted, it takes an average of 25 minutes to return to the task at hand.
What’s more important to note, is that a study done by the University of California, Irvine, found that a co-worker gets only 11 minutes before they’re distracted.
The same thing applies to our long-term focus. Many of us aren’t able to dedicate the 6–12+ months it takes to learn a skill because of the countless new projects, ideas, or hobbies that come our way.
And when we decide to shift our focus towards a new distraction, it’s much more difficult to find the same passion and drive to focus on the previous skill.
Once you have deconstructed the subset skills that will give you the maximum amount of results, focus solely on improving those skills and avoid learning anything else until you’ve mastered them.
This is the part where most of us struggle, and what many of us don’t want to hear.
YES! The key to mastering anything faster requires practice.
It requires frequency and persistence of performing the same skill over and over again, until you can do it subconsciously, without having to think about it.
The best performers in the world understand this “secret” to learn faster and become the best, yet rarely talk about its importance because of how unsexy it sounds.
Expert-level performance is primarily the result of expert-level practice, not due to innate talent.
As K. Anders. Ericsson, a scientific researcher from Florida State University, elaborates in his paper:
Recommended further reading:5 Research-Backed Methods to Master Any Skill Faster
In 1960, while they were still an unknown high school rock band, the Beatles went to Hamburg, Germany to play in the local clubs.
The group was underpaid. The acoustics were terrible. The audiences were unappreciative. So what did the Beatles get out of the Hamburg experience?
Non-stop hours of playing time, practice, and immediate feedback that forced them to get better.
That’s the key difference that rose The Beatles to the top, according to Macolm Gladwell in his book Outliers.
The band brothers didn’t just practice in their garage for the sake of practicing; they strived to get in front of a live audience that will provide them immediate criticism and constructive feedback.

As the Beatles grew in skill, audiences demanded more performances — more playing time. By 1962 they were playing eight hours per night, seven nights per week. By 1964, the year they burst on the international scene, the Beatles had played over 1,200 concerts together.
By way of comparison, most bands today don’t play 1,200 times in their entire career.
This is why at Rype, we’re solely focused on connecting you with native speaking tutors, who can give you immediate feedback during your lessons.
Unfortunately, many of us give up before or during what Seth Godin calls “The Dip.”

Godin describes that although it’s important to know when to quit, many potential winners don’t reach success because they quit before the dip.
According to Godin:
Psychologists have also studied what’s known as the transition cycle.
It’s the cycle of progress we go through whenever we’re experiencing change or a novel event, such as a tragic event or even learning something new.

As you can see, there’s a sense of euphoria we all experience when we begin something new. It’s why we’re so addicted to seeing notifications on social media, because dopamine gets released each time.
Once the Honeymoon phase fades away, we experience the “dip” and our progress begins to plateau or diminish. This is when most of us quit.
The reason why this is important to visualize is because if you can predict that a dip is coming whenever you’re learning anything new, it’s easier to fight through it.
More importantly, the dip is there because those persistent enough to stick it through can ride the upward wave that is at the end of the tunnel.
We made it! Here’s the summary of main points discussed in the ultimate guide to hacking the learning curve:
Thanks for reading until the end! I’d greatly appreciate it if you could share this with one person that will find this valuable, and feel free to hit the big fat recommend button in the bottom! ☺
If you enjoyed this article, you’ll also like reading:-5 Research-Backed Methods to Master Any Skill Faster-How to Double Your Reading Speed (Without Losing Comprehension)-How to Learn Any Language in Less Than 90 Days
Adventurer, Entrepreneur, Lifehacker. Follow me @heyseankim http://thegrowthlist.com
Thoughts on language hacking, learning faster, and traveling the globe. https://rypeapp.com

It’s a good time to be a software engineer. The industry is booming, demand for coders continues to grow, and salaries are at an all time high.
But how long will the party last?
Telegraph Operators of the 21st century
There are striking parallels between software engineers today and telegraph operators of the 19th century. By today’s standard, telegraph operators were technical lightweights: the bulk of the job consisted of receiving and transmitting messages sent over telegraph wires in Morse code, a monotonous albeit attention-heavy task. In contrast, contemporary software engineering generally involves a broad skill set that requires a deep understanding of complex systems and the ability to quickly master and re-master an accelerating parade of new software development frameworks.
However, during the mid 19th century, telegraph operators were well paid, well regarded, and considered quite technical relative to other mainstream professions. They had freedom to travel, and highly skilled operators flocked to large cities for the best jobs. As telegraphy took off and more and more cables were laid, the demand for telegraph operators skyrocketed. Standards for faster communication were developed, and operators had to keep up, memorizing increasingly efficient and complex systems of shorthand and communication protocols. Thomas Edison was a telegraph operator early in his career before settling into his true calling of stealing ideas from Nikola Tesla and empire-building. And unsurprisingly, as with contemporary software engineering, there were huge pay discrepancies between men and women.
Yet by the 20th century, the telephone had been invented, a technology that had the distinct advantage of not requiring an operator tasked with translation from code to natural language. By the 1920s, there were only a small fraction of the telegraph operators left compared to the 1890s.
The Downfall of Software Engineering
Fast forward a hundred years, and we seem to be in a similar situation with software engineers. While this profession is undeniably one of broader skill and intellectual ability than operating a telegraph, software engineers of today occupy a similar functional role to the telegraph operators of Edison’s era. The contemporary explosion of software parallels the 19th century rise of early networked communications. And just as the demand for telegraph operators scaled more or less linearly with the rise of the telegram, the demand for software engineers is currently scaling roughly linearly with the rise of software. Back then, every telegram had to be translated from Morse code to natural language by a human being. Today, every line of source code (sort of) has to be written by a human being.
To be sure, software is becoming more efficient, in that sophisticated frameworks have been developed so that fewer lines of source code have to be written, and advanced programming languages, compilers and interpreters have made the life of the programmer much easier than it had been in the 1980s or 1990s. But fundamentally, the process of writing software is still largely a human activity today.
That will change.
The current version of the profession is under pressure along two fronts. First, there are website-building tools like Weebly that allow anyone to build a website without writing software. Moreover, basic high level software engineering is getting more and more accessible, so that the delta between expressing clear ideas and being able to program is vanishing.
Second, on another front, software is getting better at facilitating the creation of software. While we are still a ways away from a fully automated piece of software that can write other pieces of software given some minimal, half-baked specification (i.e. do the job of a human software engineer), it is part way there. And more importantly, we do not need full artificial intelligence capabilities in order for role of the software engineer to shrink; instead, our software itself will just play a bigger and bigger role relative to humans in the creation of software. As an analogy, imagine semi-automated computer-assisted driving as a first step before fully self-driving cars.
While there will still be specialized software engineers and plenty of computer science-minded humans in the future, it seems inevitable given both of the above pressures that Software Engineering as a category will fade into historical obscurity as we approach the 22nd century.
But if you’re a software engineer (as I am), don’t despair — the critical thinking and technical skills will surely come in useful for future needs that arise. And if they don’t, well, keep some of that money saved up.
Interested in fairness, transparency, security, large data sets, social interactions.


*Note: this is my first piece of writing on Medium. I’m really happy to be here, I think this platform and community of writers/thinkers is fantastic. Hi everyone here.*
A few months ago I joined Patreon, a crowdfunding website sort of like a hardcore, ongoing-style Kickstarter that allows fans to support artists on a regular basis by pledging to pay a certain amount of money — a dollar, three dollars — every time content is put out: a piece of music, an article, a video, a page of comic book art. It’s basically a trusting subscription to my general art-channel, true new-school patronage.
Since March I’ve gathered about 5,500 patrons, and whenever I release something, the community pays me about $35,000, which I then use to pay for my office, my small staff, my rent, my life, and the technicians and collaborators who help me make the art. Earlier this summer I worked with a great artist, Avi Ofer, to create a short animation using a found iPhone voice memo recording of weird shit my writer husband says in his sleep. Three weeks ago I went into the recording studio to make a record of cover songs with my dad. The other day I did a piece of bizzaro living-statue performance art + book-drive at the New York Public Library, filmed it, and will put that film out as a piece of patreon content. Nobody’s complaining yet.
All this is honestly a huge relief after wondering if I was going to have to mount a kickstarter campaign every year to release music, cover the bills and support my generally spontaneous art-making addiction.
As many artists are finding out, Kickstarter campaigns are thrilling, but a lot of work. It’s a lot of concrete stuff to put in the mail; it’s a lot of admin energy spent NOT making art. With patreon, I think shit up, I do my work, I put the content/music/video up for free for everyone to enjoy, and I still get paid. It’s great. In a TED talk I gave called “The Art of Asking” a few years ago (and again in the book with the same title) I argued for a possible future where we don’t punish people for sharing content.
Taylor Swift may disagree, but I’m still committed to the fact that neither Spotify nor iTunes is going to be the salvation of the modern musician. There’s just no proof that those giants are committed to the survival of the smaller artists. The way I see it, we’re better off using the new tools of the internet to exchange with each other, rather than rely on a different set of middlemen who are possibly even less committed to the true sustainability of artists’ careers than the major labels were.
Anyway.

With my first child, at 39 years old.
Then I got this email through the “Ask Amanda” portal on my website.
Dearest Amanda,
I love you. I’ve been a faithful fan of yours for nearly a decade. We’ve met face to face a couple times. I gushed about how it was you who inspired me to take up song-writing and composing. I gave you a bracelet. It was all sincere and heartfelt.
Lately though, you’ve had me concerned.
The steady stream of new music we used to hear from you seems to be dwindling. And most of the new songs you’ve released lately are the simplistic, feel good, ukulele tunes. Which are fine. But I know that those songs take less time and effort to write, and they offer much less brain-heart stimulation than your older work. Frankly, they’re a little disappointing.
You have a reasonably sized, and growing fanbase. There will always be people to buy your merch, your albums, tickets to your shows. You didn’t NEED to join Patreon, but you did anyway. Then you announced your pregnancy, after years of saying you didn’t want to be a mom. It makes me worry about what’s going to happen next.
Child care is my day job. I babysit my two nephews. I know that young children need LOTS of attention. Especially if they are hyper-sensitive like you or me. Chances are you’ll pass that trait on to your kid. When you have this baby, either him/her/it will suffer, or your career will suffer. Your career will suffer a lot sooner if your pregnancy is as physically and emotionally draining as some of my friends’ pregnancies.
So, my question is, did you do this on purpose?
Are your patrons paying for new music, or are they paying for a new baby?
Is what you’re doing really fair to your fans? When will the music happen? The really gritty, complex, emotional good stuff? Am I missing something important? Some behind-the-scenes stuff? Is my perception of time skewed?
Bottom line is, I need answers before I can feel comfortable giving you more of the money that I earned with my own sweat and tears.
Love always,
Worried-but-Still-Devoted
(The subject of the email, btw, was: “Baby announcement right after joining Patreon?…Scam much?”)
Dear Worried,
First off, thank you for taking the time to even write this letter, and thank you for being a fan of my music all these years. I really do love and cherish every person who cares enough to communicate with me.
Secondly, thanks for confirming my deepest, most insecure, harrowing fears about motherhood and about how people will perceive me now that I have decided to breed!
Sarcasm aside, it really is a pregnant artist’s worst nightmare….well… at least it is THIS pregnant artist’s worst nightmare to get a letter like this.

I had my first abortion at 17, senior year of high school, and I’ve had two more in the 22 years since, for varying complicated reasons. Though I don’t regret them, those were some of the hardest, darkest decisions and days of my life.
I agree with you that, yes, some artists, male and female, do get kinda boring after they have babies. I won’t name names, but we’ve seen it happen, dude. A passionate, angst-filled songwriter who speaks to the very core of your black, black, suffering soul all of a sudden mellows into parenthood and domesticity and starts writing sappy songs about how everything is just about….y’know….acceptance, balance, meadows of wheat, and going with the flow man.
I would never begrudge these artists their magical balance. It’s hard enough, right?
Here’s the thing: I have come to believe we don’t have to suffer to make great art. But — still, to this day — I’ve had a hard time shaking the belief that suffering and isolation are critically important ingredients of art-making. And I’ve spent years weighing the pros and cons of having a child:
Backstory.
Where I grew up, there weren’t really any Mom Artists in my field of vision.There were nice housewives and welfare moms and bad-ass career women who worked in tall buildings in the city, but no artists in sight with babies. I simply did not equate “mother” with “artist”. Artists were another breed of being entirely, encountered almost exclusively through MTV and magazines. Usually wearing leather and tutus. Smoking.
Female musicians I encountered at an early age were never shown in videos or pictures with children in tow.

So no small wonder that as I approached my mid-thirties I entered a conflicted baby conundrum. If I had kids, would I turn into a boring, irrelevant, ignorable artist? Would I suddenly start writing songs about balance and shit? Would I have a sudden, terrifying, interest in the LUTE?
Would I become that annoying person who is so enthralled with their child that it’s impossible to have an intelligent conversation with them about art because they’d rather show you iPhone photos of their kid drooling out a spoonful of mashed carrots? This all made me really afraid.

It didn’t help matters that I’d built a traveling artist’s life that I loved, a well-oiled bohemian existence of couchsurfing and wonder and friends and improv in which I ran my own business and nobody could boss me around. Not to mention finding a supportive husband, Neil, who came equipped with three older children from another marriage, and who was just as happy to have more children as not.
It also didn’t help that some my own elders had begun saying irritating things like:

Which is, simply put, total bullshit. I’d learned, through my honest, intimate friendships with older people, that that simply was not true. Some of my mentors, artistic or not, were and are childless and the happiest, most fulfilled and enlightened people I know. I’ve learned from them that children do not innately make you happy and fulfilled: only you can do that, and to shuffle the responsibility onto a kid is actually a pretty cruel thing to do.
I watched my biological window start closing with a kind of paralytic dread, knowing that my womb and my soul were going to get crushed if I didn’t make a wholehearted decision one way or the other.
So, as you know, I went for it.
I wasn’t sure I was doing the right thing, or even that there was a right thing to do. I just did it, really hoping that the ol’ “jump and the net shall appear” cliché would manifest into a net and not a black hole.
And right now, at 36 weeks pregnant, all I can do is look at the female heroes who’ve preceded me and NOT descended into crappy boringness and pray to the holy trinity: Patti…Ani...Björki…hear my prayer. May I not get fucking boring.



So, dear Worried, you can see why your email stirred my darkest fears. I’m worried too. Probably more worried than you, because, I have to live with me all the time. And soon, I’ll have to live with this baby all the time. All while trying to not lose my art-self.
And, honestly, if this baby really winds up acting as a crippling, muse-killing, inspiration-sucker who saps the life out of my music rendering it totally bland…well…just tiptoe away, and leave me in my balanced, bland and happy misery.
As to your worry about whether or not this is a scam to crowdfund an infant: it can be confusing about where the lines of asking and taking should be drawn.
Let me tell you a story, one that I was going to include in “The Art of Asking” book (it wound up on the cutting room floor with 100,000 other words.)
Last year I stumbled across an open letter from Eisley, a female-fronted indie band from Texas, who’d tried to raise $100k on kickstarter so they could afford to accept a slot to support a far bigger band on tour.
Some people were confused, but I understood those logistics: when my band, The Dresden Dolls, were offered the opening slot for Nine Inch Nails in the summer of 2005, we chose to go into a financial hole in order to say yes. Our nightly paycheck covered about a third of what it cost to hire a crew and keep up with their tour buses, and we lost thousands of dollars. It’s a financial decision I’ve never regretted; I still meet fans, years later, who found me on that tour and have stuck with me ever since. Those things pay off.
Unfortunately Eisley didn’t reach their Kickstarter goal (so it went completely unfunded, as per the all-or-nothing Kickstarter model); but they went on the tour anyway and there was an angry backlash from their fans, who accused them of acting dishonestly. The fans asked: “if you didn’t need the money to begin with…why did you crowdfund??” Two of the members of the group were planning to bring their babies on tour, a fact that got dragged into the whole kerfuffle. Eisley defended themselves in an open letter, pointing out they’d managed to borrow the money from their families and their label, and they defended themselves specifically against people accusing them of tastelessly begging for money for baby formula, with the rebuttal that all their babies were breastfeeding…and thus weren’t planning to spend a dime of that crowdfunding money on baby formula.
But honestly? Why shouldn’t they buy baby formula with that money? It’s just there on the list of stuff they need to survive on tour, up there with everything else like gas, food, and capital to print t-shirts. It would be a like a diabetic singer promising her fans that she wasn’t going to spend her Kickstarter tour money on insulin.

When you’re a crowdfunding artist, it shouldn’t matter what your choices are as long as you’re delivering your side of the bargain — the art, the music. It shouldn’t matter whether you’re spending money on guitar picks, rent, printer paper, diapers, college loans, or the special brand of organic absinthe you use to find your late-night muse…. as long as art is making it out the other side and making your patrons happy.

The money we need to live is often indistinguishable from the money we need to make art. We need all sorts of stuff to make art with. MAYBE I EVEN NEED THIS BABY TO MAKE ART. Who knows?
As to your question about the timing of all this…no, it wasn’t schemed. I’ve been intending to use patreon since it was founded two years ago, because I love the idea of giving my fans a way to just pay me whenever I actually release content, instead of relying on a tired, outdated system of making one big-old fashioned record every couple of years. It feels way more sane, actually, as the impending unpredictability of parenthood approaches, to be able to work whenever I’m inspired and can make the time, instead of working on the forced, binge-and-purge, feast-or-famine cycle that I was stuck on when I was on a major label who didn’t care much about my quality of life.
I love the idea of getting paid for my work, when I work, by the people who want me to work. (Like you. Unless you stop wanting it. Which is fine. We’re in an open relationship. You can leave anytime. You can even come back. I’m fine with that.)
And if you already think that my output is getting too weird, or too dull: at least you don’t have to worry that the baby will turn me into one of those obnoxious songwriters who picks up a ukulele and…let’s just admit that I clearly jumped the ukulele shark years ago, and it was REALLY liberating. Though, honestly, if what you’re waiting around for is “the really gritty, complex, emotional good stuff…”…I’ll be really surprised if pushing a SMALL HUMAN OUT OF MY VAGINA doesn’t also rip my heart open and provide some really, profound new artistic perspectives. It might take me a second to recover from you know, childbirth, before I start writing again, but just give me a second. Don’t strangle me if I decide to go into labor without a notebook in my hand, jotting down inspirational lyrics.
In closing, dear Worried, if you really are worried about me, and you are with me in sensitive camaraderie, I humbly ask one thing:
please don’t terrify and jinx me right now.
Not when I’m just about to jump into this net that I’m praying will appear to catch me, my art, and this baby…all at the same time.
I love you,
Amanda
This piece was initially drafted for BBC’s “Fourthought”….you can hear me reading the first draft of it at the Hay Literary festival, live for a radio-studio audience in the BBC tent, here.
For the curious and/or supportive, here’s the link to my patreon: https://www.patreon.com/amandapalmer…if you’d like to join, friday will hopefully bring to your inbox the full backstory, gallery and time-lapse documentary of the library-statue project made by my longtime friend and collaborator, filmmaker Michael Pope. The Dad Record will be coming sometime this winter or spring. The patrons are going to help me determine how to release it.
And you’ve never heard my music, here’s a primer: http://amandalanda.amandapalmer.net/
Thank you for reading, I hope the discussion continues. And thanks, Medium.

*photo care of http://www.elegantlypregnantafrica.co.za/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/Ways-to-Help-Get-Pregnant.jpg?e96983
performer, writer, giver, taker, yeller, listener, love-lover, rule-hater…my book “THE ART OF ASKING” is out now: http://bit.ly/AFPweb.
I’m going to tell you a secret. There is a skill you can master which will guarantee everything you do will improve by at least 50%, but probably more like 100%, and more over time.
The best part about this skill is that it’s easy. Anyone can obtain it. You don’t need to have any particular natural talent. You don’t need any resources or teachers to master it. Once you have it and it becomes a part of your every operation you will begin to achieve at an accelerating rate. Your success will compound and your reputation will bring you more opportunities.
In the words of Morpheus, “Do you want to know what it is?”
That’s it. Read it again. Let it sink in.
What does it look like in practice? Responding to emails immediately, and never taking longer than 24 hours to do so. Showing up for everything you’ve said you’d show up for. Finishing everything you’ve said you’d finish and on time. When you say “I’ll read that book,” or “I’ll check out that website,” or “I’ll send my resume,” doing it. Immediately. If you can’t or won’t, don’t say those things. Every time you say you’ll do something and don’t, you’ve missed an opportunity to be better than the majority of your peers and build social capital.
In 90% of situations I’d take someone with coherent same-day responses to all communications who always delivers as promised and when promised over someone with mastery over just about any skill I can think of. I’m not alone in this. The desperate need for hard working, reliable people who communicate immediately all the time is off the charts.
If you make people wait for responses or wonder if you’ll ever follow through, you’ve cost them, even if only psychologically. People don’t tend to want to work with people who cost them — they want to work with people who they never have to expend any mental energy worrying about. They want to work with people who pleasantly surprise them by over-delivering.
Anyone can be the person who always follows through, always communicates, always delivers, and never leaves anyone hanging or in the dark. It’s only a matter of will and discipline.
Just get stuff done.
Isaac Morehouse is an entrepreneur, thinker, and communicator dedicated to the relentless pursuit of freedom. He is the founder and CEO of Praxis, an intensive one-year program combining real-world business experience with personal coaching, professional development projects, and interdisciplinary education for those who want more than college.
Originally published as “The Secret Skill That Beats All the Rest” at www.discoverpraxis.com on May 22, 2015.
Founder & CEO of Praxis
Where unconventional paths in entrepreneurship, personal development, and education meet.
At Appbot we get to see a lot of app icons while providing insights into app reviews.
In the past I have studied everything from app descriptions, to screenshots, to names, to countries. The one that has always really interested me most was app icons, but I never came up with an idea on how to really study what is effective.
Recently I stumbled across a cool Ruby library called Miro that extracts the dominant colors from an image.
Finding the dominant colors of apps shows some really interesting results.

Next I took the standard Web Colors (plus added yellow) and matched each web color to the closest. This grouped them into approximate names.
#02601e -> Green#a8120c -> Maroon#0c44de -> Blue#bdbfc0 -> Silver#f4b510 -> Yellow#717973 -> Gray#24721b -> Green#2d0d0e -> Black

Ignoring black, white & grey and taking the four most common colors I plotted them on the a ‘Color Wheel’.
The large size of the icon represents a larger percentage of the icon containing that color.


Plotting the top 200 free apps on the Color Wheel gives us:
We find large clusters of blue and red app icons, with a scattering of green. Pink and purple is under represented, with Snapchat owning yellow.

The top 200 paid iOS apps differ slightly from free.
Although there are similar groupings of blue, red and green to that of free, paid apps generally appear to use more colors with less having one color on the majority of the icon. This results on more of a spread and smaller icons on our Color Wheel.

Next I plotted the newest 100 iOS apps released to the App Store at the time of writing. The assumption was that this would give a more general representation of the overall store than the top charts.
This gave very similar results to that of the top paid charts.

All social networking apps are blue aren’t they? Twitter, Facebook etc.
Turns out the clusters are similar to all categories, if anything green is more represented.

Many games tend to have more complex icons than applications. This sees more of a spread in colors used.

It’s always felt that 90% of the apps in my OS X dock are blue, but is that the way it turns out in the top charts for Mac?
Turns out blue is similarly represented as it is on iOS, with also a lot of icon using red and green.

Graham from MacStories had a great suggestion on plotting the major color of an app against it’s chart position. I tried it for the top 100 free apps.
The larger the icon the higher up the charts the app was.

After posting the original copy of this article I had a bunch of requests for Google Play comparisons. My results are from the Australian store.
Looks pretty similar to me :)

For comparison to iOS.

This should really come down to your app, what it does and your target audience. However, maybe you fit into one of these three categories.
You like to follow the crowd, so go for blue or red.
Maybe you can go green, not the most popular, but you still aren’t being too risqué.
You laugh at the conformists, scoff at those who think they are different. Go for pink or purple and wear it like you own it.
I’m writing an eBook called “Secrets of the App Store”. Join my mailing list to download it first or follow me on Twitter @stuartkhall.
If you enjoyed this please help me out and recommend it. Why not check out Appbot while you are at it :)
Thanks for reading!
Stuart
Founder & Chief Bot @AppbotX
All about Growth Hacking, Mobile Marketing & Data Analytics

Tudo que eu queria era chegar logo em casa. A chuva fina que caia fez com acontecesse o de sempre: os taxis de São Paulo foram teleportados pro mesmo lugar pra onde vão os isqueiros e tampas de bic. Easy taxi! Nada. Nenhum taxista aceitou. 99. Nada. Merda. Impressionante, choveu os taxis daqui somem. Tenho certeza de que eles se reúnem todos em um barzinho pra esperar a chuva passar e rirem de nossas caras durante o processo.
Hum… tem o tal do Uber, né? Acho que tenho um voucher que recebi e… isso, R$ 20,00 de desconto. Aqui em São Paulo dá pra rodar umas duas quadras a 5km por hora. Vamos tentar. Instalando, cadastro e… é isso!
10 minutos e um carrão preto para na minha frente. Opa, que beleza, hein? Deve custar alguns anos de meu salário. Cheirinho de novo. Achei que só iria entrar em um carro desse em feirão de automóvel. Andar então…
- Boa tarde, senhor, muito bom poder atendê-lo. Pra onde vamos?- Boa tarde, amigo — educado o sujeito! — Pode seguir pela JK, vamos pegar a marginal.- Claro, senhor. A temperatura do carro está a seu agrado?- Sim, sim, obrigado.- A música lhe agrada? Tem alguma preferência?- Não, está ótima, pode deixar.
O sujeito está me tratando tão bem que estou achando que ele quer me comer. Porra, sabia que usar essas roupas de publicitário era roubada. Melhor eu dar bandeira de que não curto. E deixar claro que não tenho nada contra quem curte também.
- O senhor aceita um chocolate?- Quanto é?- É de graça, por favor, pode se servir.- De graça? — Opa, vou encher a mão aqui!
Rapaz… estranho isso. Sei lá, não estou acostumado com prestação de serviço assim não. Aqui em São Paulo quando um prestador de serviço lhe dá um sorriso pode conferir a conta novamente.
- Se quiser uma água tenho aqui e se precisar acessar a internet o veículo tem wi-fi.
Olha, que coisa… eu estava me sentindo um barão. É assim que um rico deve se sentir curtindo seu carrão com motorista. E tudo isso com R$ 20,00 de descon… CARALHO!!!! Que freiada foi essa? Puta merda! E que cace… ei!!!
- Desculpa, senhor, eles se jogaram na frente do carro!- Eles? Mas…
O que é isso?! Dezenas de sujeitos batendo no carro. Pancadas em todo canto. Ovos. Farinha. Que porra é essa!?!?! Os caras são… são… são taxistas!
- TAXISTAS, UNIDOS, JAMAIS SERÃO VENCIDOS! EI, UBER, VAI TOMAR NO RABO! O POVO NÃO É BOBO, QUER O TAXI NO COMANDO DE NOVO!
Palavras de ordem, turba violenta! Minha nossa! Eles estão tentando abrir as portas. Ei, calma, não, a porta não.
- Força aí nessa porta, Waldemar!- Segura aí, força, Roberval!- Opa, opa, abriu, abriu!!!- Tira o cara, tira o cara!
Me pegaram pelo colarinho, me tiraram do carro no braço! Porra, não tenho nada a ver com isso, só quero chegar em casa.
- Tá aqui, o passageiro tá na mão!- Quem tá na vez, quem tá na vez?!- Tonho é o da vez! Arrasta o cara, arrasta o cara!- É teu, Tonho, é teu!
Porra, esses putos estão me sequestrando é?!?!?
- Entra aí, compadre.- Mas que bosta é essa?- Livramos você desse motorista pirata, mermão, entra aí, vai logo!
Como se eu tivesse alternativa.
O coitado do motorista do Uber todo encolhido, os caras quebrando tudo. Que merda é essa. Me jogaram em um carro meia boca, cheirando a mofo e cigarro. O barulho lá de fora se misturava com a música gospel que tocava no som do carro e o chiado agudo do rádio da cooperativa.
- E aí, mano, vai pra onde? — Me perguntou um motorista com a camisa aberta até o umbigo, tipo Augustinho Carrara, e um palito na boca.
Sem opção, respondi.
- Vou pra Osasco e…- Ah, mano, Osasco? Nem fodendo, levo não, desce aí vai…

PS. Achei que inserindo chuva em uma CRÔNICA que acontece em São Paulo e terminando com esse final já deixaria claro se tratar de uma obra de ficção mas pelo jeito preciso ESCREVER isso porque tem gente que realmente não conseguiu perceber… vai lá, né…
Gostou do texto? Se gostou clica aí no “recommend”, logo abaixo, e ajude mais pessoas a conhecê-lo.
A primeira publicação brasileira no Medium. Uma produção colaborativa de histórias e tendências para instigar você!


This ultimate list is made for entrepreneurs, startups or anyone who want to become better in life and work. And i believe this will deliver some value or any value to someone or any one.
So let’s get started with free apps/tools today and make things happen!















































































































































If you liked this post, do click ♥ below and share with people around so others can enjoy this too.
Written by @terrytsang811, founder of entrepreneurguide.me — the awesome free guide for entrepreneurs, startups, freelancers, businesses and you. I also built plugins for WooCommerce and WordPress. To learn more and get in touch, visit http://terrytsang.com.
Entrepreneur . Business . Life
Sharing our ideas and experiences
We all love our coworkers, don’t we? Sure we do. Especially if one of them is reading over your shoulder right now.
But according to science, four out of five coworkers are annoying. There are many ways to deal with annoying coworkers, but obviously the most effective way is to picture them as rappers.
Picturing your coworkers as rappers makes you laugh and provides a helpful nickname that can be used when talking about them behind their backs. Here are a few.
When Two Cent asks if he can tell you what he thinks, it’s a rhetorical question. So, you play along and say yes, then sit there nodding. It doesn’t matter if it’s an email he wasn’t originally sent or a meeting he wasn’t originally invited to, he’s always there and ready to share his thoughts.
No matter what you do, you can’t get this coworker out of his cubicle. He skips meetings, he skips lunch, he sometimes even skips going home. If you approach his cubicle, he treats you like an alien from some faraway planet, which is exactly how you feel about him.
Like clockwork, you get an email from this coworker every Monday, Wednesday and/or Friday morning saying he’s working from home. You’ve started using his desk for cupcake parties.
If this coworker is already overloaded with work, why does he keep volunteering for more? Probably because he loves complaining that he worked all weekend and hasn’t slept in days.
No one expects perfection, except Nit Picky Minaj. No matter how hard you try to distract her with glaringly obvious mistakes, she skips past those and points out 10 ridiculously tiny things that no one else will care about.
EmineMBA is scheduling meetings for 8am, writing 20 page documents, and always wants to “pick your brain”. The summer never seemed so long.
You want to do it your way? Try again. Young Buck the System will never follow the process you set up, even if it did take you a year to do. You try to teach him a lesson or two, but no matter what you do, nothing gets through.
With Snoop Snoopy Dog, you need a screen protector for your screen protector. Whenever he’s near, his eyes are darting from your laptop to your phone to your tablet and back again. He should just take a picture, and there’s a good chance he has.
Young Sneezy is ill, but not in a good way. You tell him to go home, but he says he’s fine. Between sneezes and coughs, he’s touching your chair, your keyboard and your monitor, which explains why your desk smells like anti-bacterial soap.
Where’s the fire? There is no fire, but he’s in a rush anyway. He won’t wait for you to get off the phone before he starts talking, get out of the conference room before he’s starting his own meeting, or finish your sentence before he’s already replied to the email.
If you enjoyed this, follow The Cooper Review on Facebook!
Related: 14 Rap Lyrics You Can Use on Your Conference Call Today
Originally published at thecooperreview.com.
Comedy from the soul of my brain. Creator of http://TheCooperReview.com and author of upcoming book, 100 Tricks to Appear Smart in Meetings (October 2016)
Satire for Your Life Cereal
If you want people to like you, be 100% comfortable in your own skin. Hands down, there’s no more attractive quality than a person who is utterly comfortable with who they are. This quality transcends physical appearance, intelligence, education, income or personality. It is the cornerstone of success in business and in life.
Now, would you like the good news or the bad news?
The bad news, as you already suspect, is that your internal life is insanely complicated. Maybe your mother didn’t let you play with toys until you were 11, so you have low self-esteem. Maybe you grew up in the Pacific northwest and only saw the sun on every third Thursday, so you tend towards gloom and doom.
Maybe you are just brutally honest with yourself and have recognized that your hair isn’t quite as soft and supple as your most popular colleagues at work.
Just because I say “be comfortable in your own skin” doesn’t mean that — POOF! — you can instantly do it.
Now for the good news: your internal “comfort level” is not fixed; you can change it.
In the spirit of complete disclosure, if today you are insecure and self-critical, overnight you are not going to change into George Clooney. But you can certainly move in the right direction, and the more that you do, the more other people will like you.
To make progress, you need to do three things:
1.) Accept your qualities you cannot change. Don’t waste any psychic energy on all that stuff I said up top, such as how your parents raised you or whether your feet are too large. (If this is a sensitive point for you, I apologize and mean no offense.) By definition, being comfortable in your own skin means accepting your vulnerabilities as well as your strengths. For example, I have the skinniest ankles of any grown adult male you have ever seen, and it doesn’t bother me one whit.
2.) Recognize your ability to change is FAR greater than you once thought. You can’t change your height, but you can change how hard you work, how grateful you are for your blessings, how open you are to new ideas, how you approach difficult challenges, and how willing you are to pay the price for what you most want in life. This does not mean change is easy; it means change is possible.
3.) Be persistent. It takes time to build both confidence and competence. Invest the time, even on days when you feel as though you are sliding backward. Can you become utterly self-assured in a week? Nope. Can you do it over several years? Probably. Can you do it over a decade? Absolutely.
Why does this work?
To generalize a bit, no one likes incoherent thinking. We hate it when an attractive person complains about being unattractive. We dislike hearing someone make empty promises over and over again. Although we may not understand exactly what’s happening, we are not attracted to people who have obvious internal conflicts.
Or at least I’m guessing that’s what happens. All I know for sure is that most folks love people who accept who they are. You know what I mean: we’ve all seen people with obvious limitations utterly charm a room because they focus on their blessings rather than on their curses.
Personally, I’ve learned a lot about this subject by watching actors. How is it that Paul Giamatti can appear to be either totally charismatic and self-confident or weak and a total loser?
In 2001, the New York Times called Giamatti “an avatar of averageness: medium height and medium build, a little pale and unathletic-looking, with a receding hairline and not much of a chin.”
I’m no head-turner, but I can compete with that. Or maybe not. Here’s the rest of the NYT paragraph from which I lifted the above quote:
…his intense, friendly, nebbishy manner — he might remind you of Wallace Shawn or Woody Allen — along with his elastic features and infectious laugh have made him, if not a household name, at least one of the most employable supporting players in the business.
14 years later, Giamatti pretty much is a household name. This is a triumph of talent and confidence. He doesn’t have leading man looks, but his IMDB filmography just goes on and on and on.
When I have a bad week, I’m sometimes tempted to watch a big Hollywood star playing a complete loser. Think of Michael Douglas in Falling Down, where he plays an unemployed defense worker. The guy seems like such an average, pitiable loser… but in the back of my mind, I know he’s married to Catherine Zeta-Jones and that the two are Hollywood royalty.
Such a performance demonstrates that being comfortable in your own skin is not a function of how your skin looks; it is a function of what you believe inside.
My greatest lesson in life, bar none, is that people have a much greater ability to change than most recognize. So you have two choices.
If you like this article, please recommend it to help others find it!
Ghostwriter. LinkedIn Influencer. Skier. Will cross street to pat a dog. Check out my Day Old Lessons at http://www.kasanoff.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

Hi, my name is Isis. I’m a full-stack engineer at OneLogin. They asked me to be one of four others participating recruiting campaign that was hastily planned and executed in 1 day. I was not personally ready for the amount of attention that it has brought me.
I doubt that most of you know me. I am a passionate self-taught engineer, extreme introvert, science-nerd, anime-lover, college dropout, hip hop dancer, yoga teacher/hoop-dance teacher, really authentic friend and HUMAN(omg?!). In fact, if you knew me you would probably know that being famous is one of my biggest nightmares; seriously right up there with falling into a porta potty. I keep to myself most of the time and generally prefer when others mind their own business too.
I’m pretty blown away at the amount of attention my ad particularly has received. Friends have messaged me screenshots of their friends(who don’t know me) who have posted photos of it followed by discussion threads where it has received both positive and negative attention. Some of the responses warm my heart while others I consider to be kind of shocking… I will continue to post various threads that people send me on both sides of that spectrum.
I didn’t want or ask for any of this attention, but if I can use this to put a spotlight on gender issues in tech I consider that to be at least one win. The reality is that most people are well intentioned but genuinely blind to a lot of the crap that those who do not identify as male have to deal with. To list just a couple personal experiences:
I would like to add that both men responsible for these unfavorable experiences are not bad people. They are both socially-accepted, “smart” and “normal” guys. This illustrates one of the industry’s deep underlying issues. There is a significant lack of empathy and insight towards recognizing that their “playful/harmless” behavior is responsible for making others inappropriately uncomfortable. This industry’s culture fosters an unconscious lack of sensitivity towards those who do not fit a certain mold. I’m sure that every other woman and non-male identifying person in this field has a long list of mild to extreme personal offenses that they’ve just had to tolerate. I’m not trying to get anyone in trouble, fired or ruin anyone’s life. I just want to make it clear that we are all humans, and there are certain patterns of behavior that no one should have to tolerate while in a professional environment.
The negative opinions about this ad that strangers feel so compelled to share illustrate solid examples of the sexism that plagues tech.
“Caitlyn, when you were a man, we could talk about your athleticism, your business acumen,” Stewart said. “But now you’re a woman, which means your looks are really the only thing we care about.”
At the end of the day, this is just an ad campaign and it is targeted at engineers. This is not intended to be marketed towards any specific gender — segregated thoughts like that continue to perpetuate sexist thought-patterns in this industry.
As for the comments about the ad… Is it so unheard of that I genuinely care about my teammates? Some people think I’m not making “the right face”. Others think that this is unbelievable as to what “female engineers look like”. News flash: this isn’t by any means an attempt to label “what female engineers look like.” This is literally just ME, an example of ONE engineer at OneLogin. The ad is supposed to be authentic. My words, my face, and as far as I am concerned it is.
I didn’t ask for any of this attention, and I’m rather uncomfortable with all of it. I’m just a human and I prefer to keep my life simple/reserved, but it blows my mind that my fully-clothed smiling face with unbrushed hair and minimal makeup on a white wall is seemingly more controversial in some communities than this simply because of my gender:
Do you feel passionately about helping spread awareness and increase tech diversity?
Do you not fit the “cookie-cutter mold” of what people believe engineers “should look like?”
If you answered yes to any of these questions I invite you to help spread the word and help us redefine “what an engineer should look like”. #iLookLikeAnEngineer

My stories have become such a source of inspiration for so many people. I am now developing a team to build out www.ilooklikeanengineer.com, a safe platform for us all to continue to share our stories and experiences relating to diversity issues in tech. If you are a UX designer or know Ruby on Rails/Backbone and would like to help contribute, we would love to have you on board. Please reach out at the information provided on the landing page.
Some pretty amazing people, spearheaded by my co-workers wonderful wife Michelle, have joined together to make this movement make a lasting impact. I kind of fell backwards into all of this, but I really want to do everything I can to use the position that I am in to help make a positive impact. When this is all in the past, I would like to have created a larger impact on the community than simply generating a Twitter presence. Spreading awareness is the first step, but I want to help facilitate concise plans of action so we can create a genuine change. If you have any personal input and advice that you think could help make a difference please feel free to share it with me at isis@ilooklikeanengineer.com. You can help support us by checking out:

http://www.eventbrite.com/e/ilooklikeanengineer-with-isis-wenger-tickets-18026391422
Who knew one blog post could ignite such a profound movement? It can be very alienating to not fit a standard mold. Our goal is to bring together a diverse group of like-minded people from technology and science for a fun evening filled with activities, mingling and sharing our voices.
@isisAnchalee
*I give permission for press to use the material from this post*
Hoops and loops. Disrupting your sea of homogeny.
Home to some of the best articles on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.
It’s easy to fantasize about building a startup and making it big, but it’s much harder to turn those dreams into a reality. The media and entertainment industries have glamorized the process, neatly trimming the hard times of entrepreneurship to fit into feature length films and buzzy posts on social media. But for every story of a college kid turned billionaire, there’s an unsung hero hustling hard under the radar whom we can actually relate to. This is the story of how Ryan Graves helped build Uber.
Ryan started with a lot of hustle. He didn’t think he had any kind of intellectual capacity over anyone else that would set him apart. He’s not an engineer and wasn’t a great student. However, when he got to college, he realized the only way he was going to be successful was to out hustle everyone else. So that’s what he did. His grades picked up, and he began to develop a passion for hard work.
Ryan began putting career decisions first and soon found himself working at General Electric (GE). While at GE, however, he had an itch to build something himself. At GE, it was common to stay at the company your entire career and receive the gold watch upon retirement. Ryan didn’t want that. He wanted to start and grow something from scratch and try to make a dent in the world.
SocialDreamium was his side project while working at GE. It was essentially TweetDeck, and a short-lived project, but helped him gain product experience as a founder. With his co-founder, he wrote specs for products and sold them while wearing all the hats that startup founders do. It was an unsuccessful company, but it gave him the entrepreneurial outlet he needed while he was working at GE to feel alive.
If you’ve been following Uber over the past four or five years, this is the part of the story you’re probably familiar with: Ryan really wanted to get out of GE and work at a startup. His next attempt to break into startups was with Foursquare. After unsuccessfully applying several times, Ryan went door-to-door to bars and restaurants and convinced 30 prospects to run mayor deals on Foursquare. He sent his work to the company and was able to get an introduction to Dennis Crowley, who set him up with an internship at Foursquare.
While on Twitter one day, Ryan noticed a tweet from Travis Kalanick: “Looking for PM killer. Any tips?” Ryan was hustling and following Travis because he knew Travis was tapped into Silicon Valley and investing in companies. So Ryan followed up with: “Here’s a tip: email me,” and gave Travis his email. That was how he met Travis and Garrett. He flew out to New York to meet Travis and Garrett, and was finally able to capitalize on putting himself in the right position; he had a story to tell and Travis bought it. Ryan joined Travis and Garrett in getting ready to launch what was then called UberCab, eventually moving to San Francisco and growing Uber. It was all because of hustle, putting himself in the right position, and meeting as many people as possible.
Uber is killing it and Ryan’s there because he met Travis on Twitter. Travis isn’t the only person Ryan has met on Twitter; Ryan has made a lot of things happen on the platform. It’s not uncommon in the tech scene to meet people you would never have access to otherwise through Twitter. When you don’t have anything, you just have to hustle your ass off, and Twitter is one of the best ways to leverage your efforts.
Creating a successful startup means solving a problem in a scalable and profitable way. You can’t just go out there and talk to your users and do every single thing they want. You need to start with a problem. The problem Travis and Garrett found was very clear. The majority of incoming taxi requests on a Friday and Saturday night in San Francisco went completely unanswered. Clearly there was a problem there. Travis and Garrett developed a very elegant and simple solution for users (which hides a number of features on the back end that are quite complex) based on a real problem they personally experienced and were frustrated about. They scratched their own itch.
As you’re starting a company, not only do you need to be pretty excited about solving a problem, but you also must have a problem to solve. It’s easy to build another app because you can, chase the next social thing, or try becoming the next Uber for x, Airbnb for y, or Product Hunt for z, but there are a lot of real problems that are less sexy that have yet to be addressed. So find a problem and go after it.
Being an optimist in a startup environment can be difficult because everything is working against you. Building a company is like being in a boxing ring: you always need to be on your toes and you’re always getting clocked. People always think things aren’t going to work and that’s why, most of the time, things aren’t done.
It’s common for people to walk up to Ryan and say, “Oh man, I had the idea for Uber a few years ago. I did the research, but everybody said it couldn’t be done, so it didn’t make sense to do it.” As Ryan would think: maybe it doesn’t make sense. But the reason Uber exists now is because they believed it could be done and they were irrationally optimistic that they could get it done, and as a result, other people believed them too. Optimism breeds solutions. (Tweet)
It’s not fun to stay in on a Friday night when everyone else is out, but Ryan embraced this in ways many of us wouldn’t. Early on at Uber, Ryan spent his New Year’s Eves staring at Godview and making sure everything was working correctly. He wasn’t out throwing back champagne and partying it up. He was frantically on the phone with drivers and clients. He embraced personal sacrifice during a critical time in the business because he believed it would pay off. If you’re willing and able to do that, it’s going to set you off in the right direction.
Here’s a little more insight into this New Year’s Eve example. Ryan’s New Year’s Eve starts at 11:00pm, December 30th in San Francisco (6:00pm, December 31st in Sydney, Australia). Ryan and his team don’t stop working until 5:00am, January 1st in San Francisco. It’s basically a 30-hour marathon.
With all that being said, Ryan notes that you must take care of yourself. The media glorifies not sleeping and not taking vacations in startup life. It’s ok to realize that you do need to sleep and you do need to occasionally take a day off to recharge. No sleep isn’t cool. If you’re not well rested, then you’re not going to have the endurance to handle the biggest problems that are thrown at your company; you’re not going to have the energy to keep coming back at it after continually getting knocked down. Take care of yourself and have an outlet. When you take a weekend off and come back from that break, you are refreshed and excited to dig back in and take on the hard issues. Burnout does nothing to move your startup forward and undoes your previous sacrifices.
As an entrepreneur, there’s a ton of crazy ups and downs. You need to be able to talk to someone about what’s going on. When Ryan got off the phone with Travis from that initial tweet about Uber, he was so pumped. It was 1:30 in the morning, but his wife stayed up with him during the call and was totally supportive and happy for Ryan.
So Here’s the Kicker….
We’ve never actually met Ryan. We’ve never been to one of his interviews or his speaking engagements. We don’t personally know anybody that knows Ryan. We’re using the same hustle and grind that he’s used throughout his career to collect his advice here so more people can learn from him the same way we have.
Surprisingly, there’s not too much information about Ryan online. We scoured the internet and read every article that mentioned his name. We found several videos of Ryan and even found some old videos of him interviewing other entrepreneurs for a video blog he started in the mid 2000s (he actually interviewed Andrew Mason during the time when Groupon was called The Point). Lastly, we hunted through every single one of his tweets and direct messaged or cold emailed anyone that had a conversation with Ryan on Twitter to ask if they could provide us some information about him for this article. Most people didn’t respond, but we got enough responses to pull things together.
If you’re reading this, you know how much of a rat race Silicon Valley is. Outside of the Valley we constantly hear people tell us that it’s only about luck and timing. However, we believe that the Ryan Graves’ of the world would still be successful even if one of their initial companies didn’t work out. A quote attributed to Louis Pasteur says “Fortune favors the prepared mind.” People like Ryan Graves hustle, research, and prepare to know their industries and markets so well, that when the timing is right, they pounce on an opportunity and don’t look back.
So Ryan, we’re huge fans of your story (even if no one makes a movie about you, but they should) and we wanted to say thank you for showing us how to hustle and grind.
Co-authored by Danny Minutillo and Gabe Marcial
Find Gabe at gmarcial@tradecrafted.com or Twitter: @gabetheory
Find Danny at dminutillo@tradecrafted.com or Twitter: @danny_minutillo
Growth @Tradecraft | Excited about consumer tech and very early stage startups. Reach me at dminutillo@tradecrafted.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?



Got a graph/chart request? put it in the notes, or feel free to Tweet or throw it at Facebook. (Or you can find more over on Instagram)
I also have a desk for sale…
…and I write things when I'm not drawing things. Mostly about failing to do things, like this or like this other time.
Part 2 can be found here.
I write stuff, draw stuff, design stuff, build stuff. https://instagram.com/instachaaz/

When you’re a creative, unless you’re lucky enough to have a book deal or a paid publishing gig, you don’t have a lot of accountability. It’s a very privileged freedom, but it’s a freedom we pay for.
It means that most of the time, the world will keep spinning if you drop off the planet and never finish another piece of work. And it also means that you are the only one who can make you finish anything.
Because if you don’t push yourself, every day, to wake up and look in the mirror and ignore the feeling of near exhaustion that comes with balancing creativity and life itself, you could die without finishing anything.

There’s no end of examples of startup founders and rock stars and YA authors who have made absolute bank and never have to work another day in their lives. I wish I was one of them, believe me.
By all means, plan to make money. Work to make money. Capitalise financially on whatever success you have.
But if you want to build or create something of honesty and integrity, whether that’s a startup or an album of Japanese noise music, you have to be able to put aside that focus on getting rich.

We all want people to understand us, and understand our work, and understand what drives us. On some levels, the act of building something is an attempt to communicate in our own language. That could be an app, a line of code, or a book.
It’s going to get frustrating, and you’re going to want to scream.
You might even feel persecuted when people get the wrong end of the rope and try to hang you with it. Does it matter? No way. All that matters is that you listen to what drives you and you create what needs to be created.

Businesses can take a while to catch on, apps aren’t always an instant hit, and I’ve got news for the writers out there — even Kim Kardashian can’t sell more than 30,000 copies of a book. Most of us won’t be able to make a living off what we build right away. That’s where having a job comes in.
When all you want to do is work on your own project and create something that matters, it’s frustrating to have to set it aside every day and focus on the work that will make you money. The work that will pay the bills. The office job with the business suit or the 9-hour shift in a uniform you hate wearing.
But I challenge anyone to show me a job from which you can’t learn something. I flipped Burgers at McDonald’s for 5 years when all I wanted to do was paint skateboards, code websites and tour with a succession of shitty bands. It taught me how to manage people, how to manage my time, how to serve customers, and how to surprise and delight people when they don’t expect it.

The best thing I have ever written, in my honest opinion, is a 5-page short story about my experiences playing punk rock and hanging out with my best friends before life drove us apart. I love it, and I’m proud of it. Every now and then when I read through it, I honestly feel like I haven’t achieved the same raw emotion in anything I’ve created since.
Unfortunately, everyone I have shown it to can’t stand that piece of writing. They just can’t.
When John Romero made the video game Daikatana, he was creating the game that he dreamed of playing. Almost everyone hated it. I don’t know how he feels about it now or if he’s still as proud of it as he was when he first made it, but I do know that it was widely reviled.

There’s a flip-side to number 5. The work that you always felt let you down, the pieces and the concepts and companies that never quite lived up to your dreams could be what you are remembered for. You want to know why?

With the internet where it is, there’s no reason why you can’t turn what you build into at least a minor revenue stream. How? You treat it like a business. This is something I plan to expand on in a future post, but what it really comes down to is that…
You can take whatever creative work you are pursuing and turn it into a business if you try hard enough. But you have to treat it like a business. Have a product, have a marketing plan, and understand how to grow revenue. Read the $100 startup. Read almost any book on startups. Don’t be a starving artist, be a businessperson with a flair for painting.

…In fact, they’ll probably celebrate. Most people talk about Richard Branson, Paul McCartney and J.K. Rowling as though they were gods. Most people talk about entrepreneurs and creatives in hushed tones and admire them for being courageous and innovative.
I’m not sure why this is. I wish I was. As a general rule, if we all lived our lives by what the majority of people wanted us to do, there’d be no end of engineers, lawyers and doctors and there’d never be another novel published.
So when you start to doubt your path (and you will) there’s a good chance your friends won’t tell you to stick to your guns.

This is something that I find difficult to accept. It doesn’t matter how good anything I create is, it only matters that I get it finished.

You’ll never be able to create your best work if you don’t publish any work. You’ll never turn your startup into Google if you never get it past a landing page with an email sign up form and a vague concept of an MVP.
Read that line again until you believe it.
Now read it again until you can think of a better way of phrasing it.
See? It wasn’t perfect.
You have to be able to put aside your fears and your nervousness and commit to publishing your work, posting your music and launching your concept. You have to, because if you don’t, you will never accomplish the things you want to accomplish. And your dreams will die. And you’ll probably turn into a real tool.


See Also: https://medium.com/the-unlisted/how-to-make-something-people-give-a-shit-about-83486f42118c

Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

For many years, Photoshop was an ultimate go-to tool for designing digital interfaces. From simple web pages up to complex native apps.
Was, because designers most used software becomes out of date. I’ve realised this after trying its rising competitors — Sketch 3 and Affinity Designer. Frankly speaking, it was probably the first time I worked with different software than Adobe on UI design. I must say it was a very refreshing experience.
I’ve tried a different perspective. Another approach to UI design workflow and I liked it. It was Sketch that changed my look at my process. Because it’s intended to work as an interface design tool, its core logic is way different than the PS.
It embraces focusing on the design as… how to say, on the product? For me, its workflow is much closer to the way software/websites are developed. It won’t let you treat your design as painting canvas of some sort.
This experience results in this story. I realised how much software we’re using influence our workflow logic. Right now we’re at the very exciting moment. Photoshop is getting old. It’s slow, its core code is heavily outdated and after all it was made as photo editor not interface design tool. Former champion became lazy and got fat. At the same time rebels appeared. But none of them is perfect.
We’re right before the biggest change on the UI design tools market since Fireworks. It’ll go one way or another. Adobe will release the killing design soft, written from the ground, or its competitors will take the market for themselves.
Let’s stop for a minute and think — how would The Perfect UI design software look like? What toolset would suit designers needs perfectly and make our workflows most efficient? Or even revolutionise the way we’re designing interfaces? You can find mine 14 must-haves.
One of the biggest problems of Photoshop is its greediness. PS eats your computer memory like a monster and nonetheless — works slow. I recently found it difficult to work with one website design on MBP retina from 2014 with 8GBs of RAM.
It’s obvious that making software that’s faster and lighter is possible. Both Affinity Designer and Sketch beats Adobe flagship on his head.
No one likes when few hours of hard work wastes when software crashes. It’s a real problem with today design software. I think none of the most popular solutions works well enough.
Affinity has its child-age problems and crashes a lot, especially when using transparency tool. Photoshop is stable as rope bridge. I didn’t work in Sketch for some time, so I can’t tell how it looks today, but I recall some frustrating crashes.
Sketch is a winner here. Photoshop wasn’t meant as UI design tool at all. It’s photo editor in its core after all (regardless many additions here and there). Adobe introduced a beta version of UI design workspace in PS but come on. First of all they cut way too many functionalities. Second, it looks for me like Winamp skin. We need a truly dedicated software.
Meanwhile, Affinity looks little better than photoshop on this field but lacks any measurement tools. You can’t tell the distance between objects or scale an object by demanded percent value.
Sketch is almost perfect. Almost because it has almost every single feature needed, but it’s interface could be designed to be more usable.

For me, it’s a must have in today world. We’re designing for many devices, for many screen resolutions. Ability to easily rescale our work is a must have. Fortunately, software developers think the same.
Every single app I mentioned allows to create vector based designs. My favourite here is Affinity with its non-destructive booleans. The least comfortable to use is Sketch. It has limited capabilities.
You’ll need from time to time. To adjust photo colors or make some changes to raster graphics you use without leaving the app. Photoshop capabilities here are almost limitless.
Affinity has an efficient set of tools for the most of tasks. Besides this, there’s also sister app from Serif: Affinity Photo, which works great with the Designer.
Unfortunately, Sketch is really bad in this field. It’s almost impossible to perform any raster-based tasks in it. You may say it has its cons — It forces you to think carefully before putting something into your design, but. Sometimes you need to make some changes on the go. Sketch is clear looser here.
It’s my great problem with Photoshop. When you scale pixel layer down it’s being compressed and loose quality. Unless you convert it to a smart object first. But smart objects are heavy, slows down your work, and for me, they’re made for different tasks.
They’re great when you design e.g. button. You’re creating an object with button design then and copy it wherever you need creating instances. When you change button color, it changes everywhere. Great! But why making additional smarts just not to lose image quality when scaling?
Affinity is great here. You can scale an image ten times, and it preserves start quality. It’s awesome. I was amazed when I discovered it. Then thought come, that it should be obvious… thanks, Adobe, I felt like stone-age relic because PS take on that.
and give you a possibility to preview it in pixels in real time. And it has retina pixel mode! How great. None of the competitors comes even close.
The case? for me every single design should be grid based.
Beside that they can enhance UX by creating predictable patterns for users to follow. Yes, they’re crucial.
I’d like to have a simple tool for generating grids. One that will calculate and distribute them based on my inputs. I’d also love support for grid breakpoints, something no one supports today.
Just watch how it works in Sketch. I’d like to see it everywhere!
I’ve recently written an article about typography rules for beginners. You can find it here. Though I’ve outlined only the basics none of the most modern UI design tools supports all functions needed. No options of custom word spacing, hanging punctuation and so on.
Artboards allow you to create fixed frames on the open canvas. If you’re creating a responsive web design or a mobile app for different devices, you may want to turn each screen size into an Artboard. They’re great. Artboards allow you also to use smart objects or symbols across the design. All the screens in one file. Very convenient! Today, only Affinity Designer isn’t able to pull them off. I hope it’ll change soon.
New apps coming to the market means greater segmentation. Not everyone will be using the same product, and different teams have different workflows. In one the designer will send PSD files to the developer, in the other designer will produce a pack of assets for the developer. That means that a great software have to export designers work in different formats.
I like what Affinity is doing. It allows you to import PSD files (pretty well!) and export your Affinity made designs to PSD also! It’s great. PSD format is a standard after all and, it’ll stay that way for a while.
The last thing is very simple. In both Photoshop and sketch you can just right-click on the object and copy its CSS properties. It’s that easy. Affinity Designer lacks this function. And it needs to catch up on it very soon!
There is no perfect solution available for designers today. Although perspectives are promising. Above I’ve presented my vision. Things that are crucial for me to work smoothly and efficiently. I’m really curious, what would you like to see in The Perfect UI design tool? What functionalities would make you a better designer?
Thank you for reading,
Tom is a Senior Web Designer at GOG.com and freelance Product Designer & Art Director at Pixology.
Do you like my story? Share or recommend it please, I’ll be very grateful!
Senior Web Designer at GOG.com. Freelance product designer, art director and founder at Pixology. Music and typo lover. Gamer. http://www.behance.net/tomkoszyk
Interaction / Product / User Experience / User Interface / Design
There are Chinese and Russian translations of this article,and there’s a follow-up with Principle, Flinto for Mac & Tumult Hype.
I recreated the IF by IFTTT user onboarding in five different high-fidelity prototyping tools to get an idea of the differences between them: Proto.io, Pixate, Framer, Facebook’s Origami and RelativeWave’s Form.
See how these five recreations behave compared to the real thing:

Why did I select these five? I discovered that recreating something that is this animation-heavy (icons moving around in different directions and at different speeds) is not even possible in most prototyping packages. The majority of tools only let you connect static pages, while only the more complex ones let you animate different objects or layers within a given page.
I’ll explain it a bit more.
In a page-based tool, you lay out different screens, and then you make hotspots or buttons to connect them together. You tap a button somewhere on one screen to go to another screen. Page-based tools generally also have a choice of different transitions between screens, like fade in, slide in from the right, slide up from below, etc. It’s a bit clunky, but it’s a good way to make quick mockups when you’re still figuring out the flow of an app (which and how many screens are needed, how they would appear, where buttons should go, etc.).
Examples of page-based tools are: Briefs, InVision, Notism, Flinto, Fluid, Mockup.io, Prott, POP, Marvel, Balsamiq, Red Pen and Keynotopia. Granted, in some of these tools you can have animations or scrollable areas within a page, but you cannot use them to emulate every interaction possible in real native apps.
Every asset, interface element, or in other words, layer can be made tappable, swipe-able, draggable… but also animated. Prototyping a complete app in a tool like this would be crazy, though; it would be too much work (you might as well build the real app). But they’re great for trying out new interactions, or for tweaking the timing of an animation.
Proto.io, Pixate, Framer, Facebook’s Origami and RelativeWave’s Form are the tools I tried. To be honest, there are a few others — Axure and Indigo Studio — but they seem to be more enterprisey (read: rather expensive). I might try them out some other time.
So, onwards with the chosen ones.

Proto.io is a surprisingly powerful web app; it has many, many functions. But because everything works by drag-and-drop, clicking buttons and selecting values from lists, it can be a bit overwhelming sometimes to find the setting you need.
Because of the nature of the IF prototype — different objects moving at different speeds — I had to add several custom JavaScript calculations. The provided single-line text field was too small for the lengthy calculations so to have an overview I kept them in a text file on my computer. Important to note is that these JavaScript expressions can fail without warning. Be sure to check the console of your web browser when something doesn’t work. (I had an error caused by a variable containing a negative value.)
This is rather annoying: you have to click [Save Project] and then [Preview] every time you want see the result of the changes you made.
Not many. The animations are less fluid, though, because I had to attach many interactions containing custom JavaScript calculations to the scrollview. It’s not too bad on the web, but it’s way too slow on a device. Playback speed seems to be more normal for simpler prototypes.
view on Proto.io Spaces (sign up to import it to your account)

iOS app:Proto.io
Android app:Proto.io Player
Price:$29/month or $288/year for 5 active projects.There are also plans for 10, 15 or 30 active projects, and a free 15-day trial.

Pixate seems to strike the right balance between ease of use and functionality: it can do a lot more than the simpler page-based tools, but the learning curve is not too steep: after going through the User Guide and video tutorials you will be on your way. There are also several demos that you can deconstruct to see how they’re made.
Pixate Studio can use Xcode’s iOS Simulator (on Mac) to run the prototype. You can also connect with the iOS or Android app over local WiFi. This works great, especially because both (Simulator + app) update instantly.
The sixth page is missing, because the canvas in Pixate is only so wide.
view in app | download .pixate file

Mac or PC application:Pixate Studio
Mobile apps:iOS | Android
Price:Pixate StudioFree! (It used to be $149, until Google bought Pixate in July 2015.)Pixate Cloud$5/user/month or $50/user/year. (There is a free 30-day trial.)

As you probably know, Origami is built by the design team at Facebook working on Paper. Origami is not a standalone program, it’s kind of a plug-in for Quartz Composer, a visual programming environment that is part of Apple’s developer tools.
You program in Quartz Composer by connecting patches to each other. Different patches have different functions, and Origami is mainly a set of extra patches made for app UI design. Many people (not me, though) will prefer this to having to write code, but when you have to describe something like “if this, then do that, with the value from this calculation, but if not…” you’ll still have to program, but by connecting several patches instead of writing lines of code.
On a side note: IDEO also created a prototyping framework based on Quartz Composer, called Avocado. It has a few functions that might be handy for some projects: Bluetooth integration, an iOS interactive keyboard, a dial patch for scroll wheel-like interactions and a flippable card patch. Layers can also be made draggable.
This is going to be difficult. You can of course make a screen-recording of your prototype, but this defeats the purpose of making an interactive prototype; you might as well make something in After Effects. The only real way to try a prototype on another machine is to have the same setup. So if your client uses a Mac, she can install Quartz Composer + Origami to run your prototypes — after registering as an Apple Developer, of course.
It might run a bit slower than the real thing, depending on your computer. Quartz Composer is quite a power hog, and might have your computer’s fan spinning, especially when your Mac doesn’t have a powerful graphics card (like my Mac mini) or have a few monitors connected (guilty). I get maximum 20 fps, even when using just one monitor.
download .qtz file

Mac application:install instructions
iOS viewer:Origami Live
Price:Free! You do need an Apple Developer account, but that’s also free, as in beer, or whatever Apple developers might drink.

No dragging and dropping, pushing buttons, or connecting dots here — in Framer you will have to code. Programmers will feel at home, designers maybe less so. But it’s not too hard — Framer Studio uses a simplified version of JavaScript: CoffeeScript. But the fact that the actual engine (Framer.js) uses JavaScript makes for a lot of possibilities: you can do everything that’s possible in a web browser, so you can connect to servers to use live data, or create a Twitter client that shows real-time tweets.
With one click you can generate a public page (like this one), which can be viewed in Chrome or Safari, or in a mobile browser. (The link can be added to the iOS home screen as an ‘app’.) The same link can also be opened in the viewers (actually just chromeless browsers) for iOS and Android. A big prototype like this one might take several seconds to load in the viewer, but then it animates smoothly.
This prototype does a bit more than the other four: you can switch between the Sign in, Sign up and Reset Password modes on the last page. (You cannot actually log in or sign up, but even that would have been possible to recreate in Framer.)
view online | download .framer project

Mac application:Framer Studio
iOS app:Frameless
Android app:Framer
Price:Framer.js, the JavaScript framework, is open-source and free.Framer Studio is $99. (There is a free 14-day trial)

Form is still very young (it launched September 2014) and is clearly inspired by what Facebook and IDEO are creating on top of Quartz Composer. The folks at RelativeWave probably thought, “How would Origami look without the Quartz Composer baggage?” Origami users will feel right at home; many patches are the same and Form contains only the patches you need.
The prototype actually runs in the (WiFi or USB) connected iOS app. You’ll notice that there is no readout of the values when double-clicking a connection between two patches if no device is connected. A viewer in the Mac application, like in Quartz Composer, would definitely be handy, and seems to be planned.
The (free) iOS viewer can open .form files, so you can just email the file to the client for them to run on their iOS device.
Not many, I think. Let me know if you find any.
download .form file

Mac application:Form
iOS app:Form Viewer
Price:Free! The Mac application used to be $79.99, but when Google bought RelativeWave last November (only months after launch) they made it free.

If you have not yet used any of these, and want some quick prototyping done:
But if you’re ready to invest time into learning a powerful tool:
I’ve gotten acquainted with all of them (at least a bit), so I might use different tools for different situations:
Update: There’s now a follow-up:

These tools are all very young, and we’re all still figuring out what the best way would be to do interaction design, but I see a great future for Framer. I like the versatility and performance of Framer a lot, and I’ve found the perfect excuse to play with it some more: I’m writing a book about Framer!
The Framer book will be a manual for people without any programming experience, starting with the basics of CoffeeScript. It will also contain a bunch of tutorials in which you rebuild popular apps. And the book will show you how to add real data to your prototypes using a Parse or FireBase backend, or plug in live data from services like Twitter, Flickr, Dribbble, etc…
Sign up on framerbook.com to receive an early-bird discount when the book is released.
Originally published at cptv8.com.
iOS dev & app prototyper (Dutch, English, Spanish, some Русский)
A collection of design stories, tips, articles, tutorials on Sketch and prototyping, and more design content. Curated by the Sketch App Sources team ☺
We get it. You’re morally superior to the rest of us. Please stop writing posts on Medium about it and go to bed.
Coffee, Power Pop, Software, Cat-eye Glasses, Femme, and Queer. I worry about identity. Shoegaze bands turned me into a girl.








(and when you are done, read the FAQ)
If you subscribe to a subscription music service such as Spotify or Apple Music you probably pay $10 a month. And if you are like most people, you probably do so believing your money goes to the artists you listen to. Unfortunately, you are wrong.
The reality is only some of your money is paid to the artists you listen to. The rest of your money (and it’s probably most of your money) goes somewhere else. That “somewhere else” is decided by a small group of subscribers who have gained control over your money thanks to a mathematical flaw in how artist royalties are calculated. This flaw cheats real artists with real fans, rewards fake artists with no fans, and perhaps worst of all communicates to most streaming music subscribers a simple, awful, message: Your choices don’t count, and you don’t matter.
If you love music and want your money to go to the artists that you listen to, consider this simple hack. It’s easy to do, breaks no laws, does not violate any terms of service, directs more money to your favorite artists, but doesn’t actually require you to listen to any music, and best of all, it could force the music industry to make streaming royalties fair(er) for everyone. Sounds good, right?
So let’s cut to the chase. Here’s the hack:This September, when you aren’t listening to music, put your favorite indie artists on repeat, and turn the sound down low.
You might be saying “Wait a second, turn the sound down? How the heck does that do anything?”
Good question, let me explain.
Streaming services (Spotify, Apple, etc.) calculate royalties for artists by putting all of the subscription revenue in one big pool. The services then take out 30% for themselves. The remaining 70% is set aside for royalties.
This giant bag of royalties is then divided by the overall number of streams (aka “plays” or “listens”). The result is called the “per-stream royalty rate”.
The problem lies in the fact that this “Big Pool method” only cares about one thing, and one thing only: the overall number of streams. It does not care even a tiny little bit about how many subscribers generated those streams.
So why is this bad?
Imagine a hypothetical artist on a streaming service. Which do you think that artist would rather have: 10,000 fans who stream a song once, or one fan who streams it 10,001 times? Seems obvious, right? 10,000 fans is much better than one fan! But the Big Pool method, which only cares about the number of clicks, says the single person is worth more!
The message to artists and fans is crystal clear: the only fans that matter are the ones who click a lot. Everyone else can suck it.
This is bad for the artist, but astoundingly it’s even worse for streaming services: if each subscriber is paying $10 a month then those 10,000 subscribers would generate $1.2M in annual revenue, while the single user only generates a measly $120. Clearly the services benefit from getting more subscribers, not more streams, so why are they incentivizing streams and ignoring subscribers?
Even more backwards, the Big Pool method encourages the acquisition of heavy-usage subscribers, who are the easiest customers to get and retain (in fact most “music aficionados” are already subscribers), but offers little for light-usage subscribers, who are not only the hardest customers to get and retain, but are more profitable (by not requiring as much bandwidth) and most importantly dramatically greater in number.
It’s as if a car dealership paid the biggest commissions to the employees who sold the fewest number of cheap cars, and completely stiffed the employees who sold lots of expensive ones!
If the Big Pool rewards artists who get lots of streams, major labels can sign artists who can get a lot of streams. But what if artists aren’t the only ones getting lots of streams?
Click fraud is rarely discussed in the context of streaming music, but it’s fairly simple for a fraudster to generate more in royalties than they pay in subscription fees. All a fraudster has to do is set up a fake artist account with fake music, and then they can use bots to generate clicks for their pretend artist. If each stream is worth $0.007 a click, the fraudster only needs 1,429 streams to make their $10 subscription fee back, at which point additional clicks are pure profit. But that’s assuming they even paid $10 for the subscription in the first place: it’s possible to purchase stolen premium accounts on the black market, making the scheme profitable almost immediately. The potential profits are substantial: At Spotify it only takes 31 seconds of streaming to trigger a royalty payment, which means as many as 86,400 streams a month can be generated, resulting in over $600 of royalties. At Apple Music the threshold is just 20 seconds, making it hypothetically possible to clear 129,600 streams and $900 in royalties in just one month!
Awareness of click fraud in streaming music is so widespread that developers make apps to facilitate it. The services will tell you they work hard to make their systems secure, they pay bounties for people to find bugs, and once in a while they even catch and ban click frauders. But security researchers are not impressed, many people are not getting caught, and ultimately we have to confront the simple fact that there is no such thing as a foolproof way to prevent click fraud.
If the amount of click fraud activity on Google, Facebook, and Twitter is any indication (estimated to be over $6 billion a year), the problem could be far worse than any of the services will admit, or possibly even realize, and there’s no way for artists or fans to determine how much revenue has been stolen. It’s like someone sucking the oil out from under your property: you don’t even know it’s happening.
Click fraud is not the only way to cheat the system. One band made an album of completely silent tracks and told their “fans” to play the blank album on repeat while they slept. If a subscriber did as instructed the band earned $195 in royalties from that single subscriber in just one month. But if each subscriber only pays $10 in subscription fees, then where did the other $185 come from?
It came from people like you.
The media suggests that Spotify was the one being “scammed” by this “clever” and “brilliant” stunt, but in reality Spotify suffered no financial loss at all. The $20,000 that the band received didn’t come out of Spotify’s pockets, it came out of the 70% in royalties earmarked for artists. In essence what happened is every artist on Spotify got paid a little less thanks to an album with no music on it.
To understand why, we need to talk about how “average” can be an illusion.
One of the most misleading words used in the streaming music industry is the word “average”. You’ll often see streaming services bragging about how their “average” user is streaming x number of hours per day, particularly when they are pitching advertisers. But don’t be fooled by the word “average” here — it’s an illusion. Average does not mean typical.
Think of it this way: imagine you are in a room with a random group of people. What is the average income of everyone in the room? It’s likely that roughly half will be above average, and the other half will be below average.
Now what happens when Bill Gates walks into the room?
Everyone in the room is below average now, thanks to Bill.
The same effect is happening in streaming music: a small number of super-heavy-usage subscribers have raised the “average” usage to the point that most subscribers are now below average.
We can illustrate this with a graph:
To understand how heavy-users wind up in control of your money, it helps to look at how royalties flow at the individual level:
Every user pays $10 a month, which generates $7 in royalties. If the per-stream rate of $0.007 is determined by dividing overall revenue by overall plays, then simple math tells us the “average” subscriber is streaming 1,000 times (1,000 * $0.007 = $7.00).
So if you stream 200 tracks in a month you will send $1.40 to the artists you listened to (200 * $0.007 = $1.40), and the remaining $5.60 of your $7 is now up for grabs. So who’s grabbing it?
Well, let’s imagine a heavy-user who streams 1,800 tracks in a month. As a result of all this streaming they send $12.60 in royalties to the artists they listen to (1,800 * $0.007 = $12.60). Since they only contributed $7 towards royalties, they are $5.60 short. Guess where that money comes from?
You.
It’s worth noting that many (if not most) of these heavy-usage “subscribers” are probably not individuals at all. They are actually offices, restaurants, gyms, hair salons, etc. Businesses like these can stream up to 24 hours a day — far more you as an individual could ever hope to do. And they probably don’t share your taste in music either. But they pay the same $10 you do, so why do they get to decide where your money goes?
It’s like you bought a CD and the store told you that you had to listen to it 1,000 times, or they will give your money to Nickelback.
That’s fucked up.
There is a better way to approach streaming royalties, one which addresses all of these problems, and it’s called Subscriber Share.
The premise behind Subscriber Share is simple: the only artists that should receive your money are the artists you listen to. Subscriber Share simply divides up your $7 based on how much time you spend listening to each artist. So if you listen to an artist exclusively, then that artist will get the entire $7, but if you listen less they get proportionately less.
As an example, if you listen to Alt-J 25% of the time, then Alt-J would get $1.75 ($7.00 * 25% = $1.75):
Let’s compare this with the Big Pool: if you typically stream 200 streams per month (that’s roughly 13 hours of streaming), then playing Alt-J 25% of the time would equal 50 streams. Since each stream gets a flat $0.007 per stream, the band will recieve just 35 cents. (50 * $0.007 = $0.35)
Click here to see how this looks in real life, with a real subscriber.
A nice feature of Subscriber Share is that it is very difficult to turn a profit with click fraud: instead of turning $10 into $600, a fraudster would be turning $10 into $7, and would waste a lot of bandwidth while doing so.
If the fraudster used stolen premium accounts (reducing their cost from $10 to $1 per account), they could still make as much as $6 per account, but that is nowhere near as attractive as making $600 is it? And the difficulty level to do this at scale goes way up. If the industry switched to Subscriber Share most click frauders would move to greener pastures.
Subscriber Share can also be a huge benefit to small bands just starting out. If a band has a respectable fan base of 5,000 fans then they need $12.06 from every one of these fans in order to earn the federal minimum wage for four people, $60,320. In years past they would sell their fans a CD. But now under the Big Pool they need an ungodly number of streams to make minimum wage: 8.6 million streams.
This means every single fan has to stream the band’s music 1,716 times. Assuming a four minute song that’s over 114 hours of listening, and if their fanbase averages 200 streams per month then that means their fans would need to listen to the band 71% of the time for an entire year!
Subscriber Share only requires the fans to listen to the band 14.36% of the time, so if the typical fan averages 200 streams a month, then just 29 streams a month is sufficient, and the fan will only spend 22 hours in total listening to the band’s music. This is far more plausible for a new artist.
But intriguingly, Subscriber Share also enables fans to financially support an artist using even less effort: If a band can convince their 5,000 fans to listen to them exclusively for two months, the band will earn $70k, and the fans will only have to click once each month in order to do this.
Subscriber Share enables listeners to directly support the artists they care about without having to expend extraordinary amounts of energy to do so.
The result of Subscriber Share is that each and every fan winds up being far more valuable to artists. It honors the intent of the listener, and incentivizes getting more fans, bringing the goals of everyone (services, labels, artists and fans) into alignment.
If you think about it, this is how most of the genres we love got started in the first place. Hip hop, jazz, blues, reggae, punk, grunge, etc, all came from a small group of musicians, and a small group of fans, supporting each other. Who was the biggest beneficiary of this in the end? The music industry.
It boils down to two big obstacles: fear, and inertia.
To be fair, the music industry has been on the wrong end of the economic stick for well over a decade now, and talking about changing royalty methods just as it seems like things are about to get better is understandably scary.
The other problem is inertia. Institutions hate change, it’s expensive and hard, and you have to rethink everything attached to that change. Inevitably various special interests will arise and fight for the status quo. It can be very tricky to overcome their objections.
So it is difficult for the music industry to change, even when they know it’s in their best interest. They are like a cat stuck in a tree. They got themselves up, and can’t figure out how to get down.
If the industry is immobilized by fear, and can’t be persuaded to move in the right direction with logic, then one possible way to get them to get them out of the tree is to make it even scarier if they don’t move. In other words: We need to scare the cat out of the tree.
And that’s where our little hack comes in…

A critical aspect of streaming music services is that the services can’t tell if the volume is turned down. If the music is playing the “clicks” still count, even if no one is listening. This can be used to our advantage.
Normally a typical subscriber can’t keep up with heavy users, in part because many of these heavy users aren’t even individuals to begin with: they’re actually offices, hair salons, gyms, yoga studios, and restaurants. But if typical subscribers streamed music 24/7, and just turned the volume down when they weren’t listening, then maybe they could catch up!
And if these silent protestors streamed strictly independent artists, major labels would have to worry about the value of their streams decreasing! That could be enough to persuade them to reconsider the use of the Big Pool method, and if the major labels jump out of the Big Pool tree, the rest of the music industry will follow.
Even a small number of people engaging in this silent protest will have a measurable impact: just doing it for one day will double most people’s monthly consumption, and doing it for one week will result in more streams than a typical subscriber consumes in a year! But obviously the more the merrier. So let’s throw the idea out there and see what happens:
Note: It’s recommended that you turn the volume low, but not all the way to zero, and you should change your selected indie artist on a daily basis (or even better use playlists with multiple artists), so that you aren’t mistaken as a bot by the services.
If this works the music industry will be forced make royalties fair(er) for all musicians and fans. If it fails a couple of indie bands will get a bigger check than usual. What have we got to lose by trying?
A constantly updated FAQ can be found here
It’s that little box at the bottom on the right with an arrow coming out of the top. It looks like this:
Can’t get the word out unless you help get the word out!

Use in whatever way you like (Use as your social media profile pic in September, or sell t-shirts, bumper stickers, sponges, laser pointers, etc. if you want, it’s totally up to you!):
CEO & founder: @Bandago (van rental with fun stuff), father of two boys, ping pong enthusiast. Previously: guitarist & songwriter for @creeperlagoon
An ear for the new, a heart for the classics.

About me: I built Caskers. Now I’m building Native.
The Hair of the Dog is a sports bar located in the Lower East Side of Manhattan. Like most sports bars in New York, it has an ungodly number of televisions, a beer pong table and 3.5 stars on Yelp. More importantly though, Hair of the Dog has a single dollar price rating (“$”), which is really important when your goal is to be drunk by 3PM.
In October 2013, my cofounder and I were in negotiations to sell Caskers, an ecommerce site we founded just 1.5 years earlier that sold spirits (think booze, not ghosts) online. The negotiations had already dragged on for a few months, and we were just days away from our scheduled closing date. If you’ve ever been in the same situation before, you know that your mind starts wandering and thinking about all the possibilities that could still derail the sale of your company. It also starts thinking about ways you could spend millions of dollars, but you try not to put the cart before the horse.
The week before my company was sold, there was little I could do except sit around and wait. My team (there were three of us at the time — my cofounder, our first employee and me) would come into the office around 9AM and finish up whatever pressing tasks we had for the day by noon. Then, we’d head down to Hair of the Dog and try to kill time by drinking until happy hour ended at 8PM. The week we spent at Hair remains a hazy blur for me, but I’ve had more than a year of sobriety to reflect on the business that I started, grew and sold. These are the five most important lessons I learned from my time at Caskers.
Lesson #1: Be Frugal
While most startups these days seem to spend money lavishly, we built Caskers on a shoestring budget. We had come up with a business model that didn’t require inventory (much less office space). The backbone of our website was an ecommerce plugin for WordPress that was free. We customized a theme that we had purchased for $35 to the extent that we could, and hired a developer in India to help us build out what we couldn’t. Our largest initial expense was actually our logo, which we got after running three design contests and cost $800. In total, it only cost us $1,200 to build our entire website before launching.
After we launched, we focused on growing the company as frugally as possible.
Being incredibly frugal was the most important lesson I learned at Caskers. Since we never spent any money, we never had to worry about running out of cash. In addition, being frugal allowed us to offer incredible value to our customers: every dollar that we saved in terms of our own expenses was another dollar we could pass along to our customers in terms of lower prices.
Lesson #2. Be Relentless
When we launched Caskers, we had no marketing or advertising budget. As a result, I knew that we’d only be able to build brand awareness and acquire customers by (i) making a product that people loved and shared with their friends and (ii) getting editors at news publications to write about us.
I was relentless in hacking growth. Here are a few days I did it:

Ultimately, we were able to generate millions of dollars in revenue without spending a dime on customer acquisition.
Lesson #3: Be Experimental
We were focused on growing our community as fast as possible and experimented rapidly with new ideas. If something was working, we’d devote more of our time to it. If it wasn’t, we scrapped it and tried something new.
Here are a few examples of things we experimented with:
Experimenting with new ideas to market our company and sell spirits consumed a large amount of my time. Without experimenting though, Caskers would not have been a fun place to work. More importantly though, Caskers would not have grown as quickly as it did.
Lesson #4: Be Careful
Ultimately, a startup is the sum of all the things you do and all the things you don’t do. There were many things we didn’t do, some for better or worse.
Being a startup founder requires making live-or-die decisions with limited information and finite resources and under intense pressure. Making decisions quickly is important, but rushing into decisions is a mistake.
Lesson #5 Be Resolved
One of the greatest challenges I faced as a founder was to ignore the noise of other startups. While other startups were raising rounds seemingly effortlessly, it was difficult to accept, much less be proud of the fact that my company hadn’t raised a dime and didn’t employ anyone (other than my cofounder and me) for a long period of time. Looking back on it, it’s easy to wear our lean operation as a badge of honor but at the time, it felt like we were failing.
Each startup is unique and the best way to build a successful company is to capitalize on your strengths and overcome your weaknesses. I learned that I couldn’t be pressured by the success of other startups — I learned to be resolved so that I could build the company I wanted to build.
In terms of what I’ve learned, in terms of the experiences I’ve had, and in terms of the friendships I’ve formed, starting, growing and selling Caskers has been the greatest experience of my life. So Far.
About Me: I was the cofounder and CEO of @Caskers. Now I’m the founder and CEO of Native. Follow me on twitter.
I built @Caskers. Now I’m building @nativecosmetics.
Sharing our ideas and experiences
When Material Design was announced, I was impressed with Google’s efforts to raise their game in the design field. It’s something that Apple had always been ahead. Not anymore. I remember complaining a lot about Android design’s inconsistencies, lack of documentations, unattractive dark theme and overuse of the ambiguous Hamburger menu. Material Design solved a lot of that. It now offers a consistent design language that is lighter, more colorful, backed by solid guidelines that are well-considered.
But while the colors are pretty and the use of cards give a great sense of depth and tactility, I often asked myself, is this really better than Apple’s iOS Design as a lot of designers say it is? I’d like to give some of my thoughts on why I think it’s different, not necessarily better.
Let’s start with the 3 core principles in iOS: Clarity, Deference and Depth.
Clarity is about text legibility, obvious icons and good contrast. Clarity can also be platform-specific. What’s clear to iOS or Android users highly depend on what they’re familiar with. An icon may be instantly recognizable to iOS users but not to Android users, and vice versa.
Depth is another principle that both platforms share. But they approach the concept differently. iOS promotes blur and gradients while Android gives priority to drop shadows and the concept of paper.
Despite what most say, both platforms replicate real life in major ways. They’re skeuomorphic using blur, drop shadows and animations that use physics and realism of space. Skeuomorphic design was helpful to introduce new concepts using familiar metaphors, but the overly detailed textures and 3D effects definitely ran its course. As users, we outgrew it because technology is no longer so foreign to us. We’re at a phase where a leathered calendar or vinyl disc make less sense than a digital concept.
In both of these design languages, there are weaknesses.
For example, it looks off to have multiple layers of blur on top of each other. Also, the vibrancy added can be too much.
The card concept looks completely different on a circular screen. The card takes the full width. The alignment of the text feels off because there is a lot of unnecessary negative spacing. Lists are also hard to use on a circular screen since the corners hide a major part of the content.
These Android Wear faces look awesome though. This truly feels like the UI was made for a circular screen.




Deference is where it differs a lot. iOS gives total priority to the content while Android uses the concept of cards to make the content seem more tactile, thus losing important real estate in the left and right portions of the screen. The overwhelming colors also take priority over the content.
The FAB (floating action button) hides the content and gets in the way of the interactions.
Inversely in iOS, the focus is more on the content. The color of the UI is more neutral and contextual (they change based on the content). Vibrant colors are used minimally, mostly for actionable items.

There has been a long debate on whether we should use the Hamburger menu. That debate is far from over. Even Apple sparsely use it in their designs.
But it’s safe to say that we generally see them more in Android since Material Design encourages them.
iOS favors the Tab bar for navigation. Interestingly, LukeW pointed out that obvious always wins. Facebook switched to the Tab bar for iOS and they saw an important increase in user engagement.

But there are situations where the Hamburger menu can be a good idea, like when your most important content is your front page. Options inside it need to be secondary, like settings and logout.
Material Design uses colors prominently. Yes, they’re pretty. So was the Flat UI color palette. We can all agree that pastel colors look very nice in most situations, unlike the flashy ones that come by default in CSS or Xcode.
But Material Design uses those colors in their header, sometimes even to replace content. When you have a lot of competing colors, it de-prioritizes other elements.
Colors do have meanings, but those meanings can be quite limited (E.G. red means alert, yellow means warning, etc). Colors do express a brand, but branding shouldn’t be front and center in the UI of your app. In fact, the App Icon is the place where branding is most appropriate. So before you absolutely want to use a color alone in your header, you might want to consider something more expressive. Something that explains exactly what your app is about.
Again, that may make sense in Android, but not in iOS.

I have to admit that I used to think that having one design language that is consistent across all platforms is the best way to go. But unfortunately that lead to designing an Android app using the iOS design language. It made sense from my point of view, but ultimately it was bad for the users. Android users are simply not familiar with iOS.
Material Design’s goal to unify all platforms is a valiant effort, better than anything I’ve seen in this respect. But is it really the best way to go?
Is the Card concept really working on Android wear, which sometimes has a circular screen? It doesn’t seem like the language considered the devices first. Instead, it feels like an afterthought.
If you look at the Apple Watch, the design was completely rethought for the Watch. This means that there are new UI paradigms that had to be considered specifically for the Force Touch, the Digital Crown, wrist detection and the black bezel.
Everything from how the Material should be manipulated and elevated to how the colors should be combined is explained in their guide.
The good side of having strict style guides is that it’s hard to go wrong. It’s like Bootstrap. It provides a consistent and convenient system. The bad side is that it limits creativity and will make most apps homogeneous.

Don’t get me wrong, there are a lot of things that Material Design does right. It just seems like every designer sings praises without truly considering the weaknesses.
For one, their new Design spec is world-class, giving guidance on a variety of design topics that will benefit you beyond the scope of Material Design.
The concept of cards is one that generally works well across the board. It’s flexible and modular. It can definitely work with Web — designers have been using them way before Mobile came along. But I believe that the smaller the screen is, the less it makes sense.
As I mentioned before, pastel colors were hardly a new thing. But the Flat UI trend and Material Design really popularized it. We’re going back to the basics in order to achieve harmonious colors and beautiful typography. That’s a great thing. The more we know about the foundation of design, the better we can shape the pillars that come on top of it.
The animations in Material Design are elegant and delightful, albeit not as innovative as people make them out to be. Before iOS 7 came, transitional interfaces were still a fairly new concept. I’m glad that both guides are promoting smoother, more progressive animations to guide our users rather than scream at them for attention.
There will never be a perfect design language or template. The purpose of this piece is not to discourage one or the other, but to offer perspective their strengths and weaknesses. Design is about picking the best for the intent. So go ahead, experiment and see what works for your product. Just don’t forget to consider the people and devices that you’re designing for.
I wrote a few things about iOS, Android and code. You can find me on Twitter at @MengTo. Thanks for reading!
I design, code and write. @mengto
The most important news related to Android, Tech and everything else…

10) Always get the full story before making a decision.
9) It's incredibly easy to 'flip the switch' and start writing people off after a few bad experiences. Resist at all costs. You were bumbling once too. You made poor decisions. You learn and grow, and so does everybody else.
8) Sweep up the crumbs. Wipe the tables. Turn off the lights. Plug the holes that need plugging—even if it's menial, even if nobody will know you did it. Do it in service of the product, the company, and this wondrous, magical thing you are all building together.
7) Recognize you can't do everything. Close your eyes, fall backwards, and learn to trust.
6) Clearly, there is a more efficient way to do the things you do. How? Ponder that on your daily drive home.
5) Figure out which people rely on you and how you can help them be self-sufficient. You may feel important having a monopoly on salmon provisions, but if the whole village learns how to fish, it'll free you up to do something else. Like figuring out how to grow wheat. Or how to domesticate those cute wolf-pups.
4) Don't say anything if it's not actually contributing to the discussion. Your voice is not so melodious that it absolutely must be heard.
3) Making the best decision is not as important as putting in the right processes to ensure that the best decisions get made.
2) Dole out thanks and encouragement like you dole out opinions.
1) Above all, this: never, ever get in the way. It's better to twiddle your thumbs and squint up at the clouds than to obstruct progress for the sake of that stupid, childish thing called ego.
This is a personal list, and perhaps gently biased by what I do (manage designers) and where I work (Facebook) and how the imprint of many talented others have affected me. I don't claim to do all these things well nor every day. But this is the little voice that greets me in the morning, the whisper at the end of each day, the shadowy outline of some dazzling ideal that I catch a glimpse of every once in a blue moon. This is the aspiration. This is the manifesto.
Product design director @ Facebook. Self-professed tyro and lover of food, games, words. Follow me as @joulee or on  www.juliezhuo.com
A collection of essays by Julie Zhuo on design, building products, and observing life.

“If it turns out that this is incurable, would you marry me?” is not your traditional marriage proposal, but then again, Andy and I haven’t lived traditional lives.

Andy and I first met after literally running into each other at a White House reception honoring the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community in June of 2012. I was fortunate enough to have been invited after coming out publicly as a transgender woman while serving as student body president at American University just a month before. Andrew, 26 at the time, had come out as a transgender man several years prior and was now a leading LGBT health policy advocate in Washington, DC.
I hadn’t given our clumsy “meeting” at the White House much thought until I received a charming and suave Facebook message from that handsome guy two months later. His friends now tell me that he spent hours writing and re-writing the short message, in which he asked me out for coffee or drinks. After several online conversations and a few more chance encounters while I interned at the White House, we finally managed to find some time to go out for dinner.
We quickly found that we had far more in common than our transgender history, no doubt an important component of our identities, but still only one part. We both had a passion for law and politics, a love of “trash television” as he would call it, a desire to travel, and incessant need to be right. We both got involved in politics after an intense interest in film. We both loved Star Wars, although his love dwarfed anything I could muster. And we both had an obnoxious affinity for baby-talk and nicknames, he was the “big bean,” to my “little bean.” I still maintain that I certainly had the better deal: he was generous, loving, smart, funny, and enjoyed just the perfect mix of hard work and play. Many of the traits I’d find common in people from his beloved home state of Wisconsin.
In no time we were attached at the hip. Just a few weeks into our relationship he accompanied my family and me on a trip to Barbados. I quickly became part of his family and he quickly became part of mine. In no time, he was my partner and my best friend. To top it off, we even ended up becoming colleagues, when I joined him to work at the Center for American Progress. We began to talk about our future together, believing that it stretched far beyond anything we could imagine.
Our relationship took on a whole new dimension when Andrew was diagnosed with oral cancer in his tongue in September of 2013. I thought and hoped that the succeeding few months would be the toughest that we would have to endure for some time. In October, Andy underwent a twelve-hour surgery to remove part of his tongue and reconstruct it with a graft from his arm. Just as he relearned how to talk and eat, he had to undergo an intense regimen of radiation and chemotherapy that left him in so much pain that he could barely breath without a stabbing sensation in his mouth.
And then in April, he was proclaimed “cancer free!” As frightening and as stressful as that experience was, it gave us a bond that few couples our age develop so quickly. When we received the positive results in April, we knew we were not totally out of the woods yet, but we began to start to plan for our lives ahead.
But then the world that he had rebuilt after his first diagnosis came crashing back down in July of 2014 when he developed a mild, but persistent cough and chest pain. After several tests and a short hospital stay, the news came back like a punch in the gut: Andy’s cancer had returned and had spread to the lungs.
It was in the 24 hours after this news that Andy asked me, “If it turns out that this is incurable, would you marry me?” Of course the answer was yes. Andy had always wanted to get married, but prior to this new diagnosis, there was never any rush. He was only 28 and I was just out of college.
When we got the news that the illness was “life shortening,” as doctors say, his soul was understandably crushed. At the time, we were told that with treatment, he would probably have about a year left.
The next two weeks were a blur of silence, disbelief, and crying. Lots and lots of crying. Crying about the fear of death. Crying because he wouldn’t be able to see his family and friends grow up. Crying because, as he said, “he wouldn’t be around to say ‘I love you, bean,” or ‘I’m proud of you, bean.’”
And as the crying gave way to determination — determination to both live as long as possible and as much as possible — we decided to move forward with a wedding.
Andy was scheduled to start chemotherapy in the next few weeks in order to perpetuate his life. Because we thought we were operating with a year left, we tentatively set our wedding for mid-October. Both of us had always wanted a fall wedding anyway; the colors, the temperatures, and, for a DC couple, the lack of humidity were all appealing.

But on Thursday, August 14th, the third full day of Andrew’s second stay at our local hospital and two weeks before he was supposed to start treatment, one doctor threw a wrench into our plans and cold water on Andy’s hopes.
“I’m saying you might not make it to treatment,” the doctor said.
These were the first words I heard as I walked into Andy’s hospital room after taking a shower back at our apartment. As I came around the corner, I saw the stunned look on Andy’s face.
“So you think I may only have two weeks?” Andy asked, his face as white as the Wisconsin snow he may never see again.
“Yes,” the doctor continued and then paused. There was silence. I wasn’t quite sure where he was going next. He seemed to be deep in concentration, which would make sense given the gravity of the news he had just delivered.
“Hold on, there is a fly. Let me kill it.” He lifted his hands up, getting ready to smack the fly to death. The silence continued, only broken by a loud clap.
The body of the fly fell to the floor. The doctor paused again, said “hold on, let me pick it up,” as he slowly bent over, lifted the fly’s body, and threw it in the trash.
I wanted to scream at the doctor’s coldness, but I was stunned into silence by both the news and the indifference with which it was delivered.
After 45 seconds, which naturally felt like an hour, Andy, who couldn’t bare awkwardness, finally broke the silence and said to the doctor, “nice job.”
Eventually, the doctor continued. He instructed us that one of Andy’s lungs was failing at a rapid rate. “You need to decide whether you will want to go on a respirator. Just know, though, given your condition, if you go on a respirator, you will likely never be able to be taken off. And to put you on a respirator, you will have to be sedated, and, given your condition, you will likely never wake up.”
Moments later, another doctor came in and apologized profusely. It seems she had over-hydrated Andy after thinking his heart was racing from a lack of fluids. The doctor who had just delivered Andy’s “two-weeks notice,” seemed surprised and slightly relieved that there was a potentially reversible reason for the episode. The cardiologist prescribed some medications and reduced his fluid intake. Sure enough, Andy rebounded and by that afternoon was better than he had been since being admitted to the hospital in the first place.
As the two doctors left his room, we were confused. Did Andy have two weeks left or was his rapid decline of this morning merely a temporary problem that was easily fixed? Unsure, Andy turned to me and said, “Two weeks? I’m not ready for this ‘A Walk To Remember’ shit.” He had been fighting to live, but now it seemed he was merely fighting for a year.
Over the next few hours, neither doctor returned to our room with any more information. We asked any medical professional who entered our room for an update, from the nurses, to the palliative care team, to the young hospitalist. No one could provide much clarity as to what we were looking at in that moment. The general consensus was that Andy didn’t look like someone with two weeks left. In fact, by that evening, he was stable enough that the decision was made to discharge Andy in the next few days.
The next day, after Andy’s mother had suggested moving up the wedding, I broached the subject with him. He seemed to receive the idea well, although with concern that moving the date meant something about his prognosis. I explained that we weren’t moving the date because his prognosis had changed, but rather that the chemotherapy would take more out of him than we anticipated. Determined to reach the wedding, he said, “Let’s do it.”

The first full day back at the apartment, our friend and colleague Bishop Gene Robinson, the first openly gay bishop in any major Christian denomination, came by our apartment to discuss the possibility of a wedding. After talking with Bishop Gene for about an hour, we decided to move forward with a wedding that weekend, then just five days away.
Bishop Gene, as well as several close friends, offered to do all the planning, logistics, and organizing for the wedding. All we had to do was to get the marriage certificate, for me to buy my dress, and to make the occasional decision. Given Andy’s limitations, we decided that we would host the wedding on the roof of our apartment building, a beautiful space for about fifty that has magnificent 360 degree views of Washington, DC.
Over the next several days, as preparations for the wedding continued, Andy’s situation deteriorated. With each passing day, he could walk less and required a little more oxygen. He slept more and more. Daily tasks that once took five minutes for Andy, now took thirty minutes or an hour with the help of multiple people. Eventually, eating became a labor for him, taking him four hours to down fifteen spoonfuls of an ice-cream/medicine mix.
The only respite from the constant struggle to keep him nourished and hydrated came when I would talk with him about the wedding. You could tell he was trying his hardest to stay awake and alert for those conversations.
A few days earlier, Bishop Gene had sent us a draft of the wedding ceremony based on the Episcopal Church’s service. With Andy’s permission, I went through and edited it for us. I removed any mention of death in the ceremony and replaced it with “forever and ever.” Given his condition, I also reduced the amount of lines we had to speak to three simple sentences:
“I do.”
“That is my solemn vow.”
And, “Please accept this ring as a symbol of my abiding love.”
I knew he would not be able to remember these lines, so I wrote them out, as well as the last sentences before them. After working on the service for about an hour, I came out of our bedroom and asked him if we could go over it.
By this time, Andy was sleeping most of the day. His activities were looking less like someone with ten or even two months left, and more like someone who had a week or two. I tried reading the entire service to him, but he fell asleep pretty quickly. When he awoke, I decided to only read to him his parts and the sentences before his lines, including the line, “Will you honor and love her forever and ever?”
After I asked him if he was okay with that and told him that I had made a cheat sheet so he didn’t have to memorize anything, he started to drift off to sleep again. As his head began to fall back and his dreams came again, I heard him mumbling. I wasn’t sure if he needed something, so I walked over to his chair and leaned in.
He kept mumbling the same thing over and over again. I leaned in further to hear him more clearly, “forever and ever, forever and ever, forever and ever…”

The morning of our wedding — August 24, 2014 — came without incident. No shortness of breath. His eating had marginally improved. The weather, which had initially been forecast to be rainy, turned out to be the nicest day of the month. Mid-80s, sunny, just the right amount of breeze. Our families had come in from out of town. Old friends and new friends were ready and excited. It was turning out to be a beautiful, albeit bittersweet day.
I was getting ready in our neighbor’s apartment across the hall when about an hour before the ceremony one of Andy’s best friends knocked on the door. He was out of breath and clearly shaken.
“Andy just had an episode. He started to collapse and go unconscious when he was moving from his recliner to his wheelchair. He is awake and his vitals are okay right now, but we called the police and the EMT’s are on their way.” Luckily, my brother, a radiation oncologist, had offered to be with Andy while he got dressed for the wedding and was there to help.
With my hair up and my wedding dress still hanging on the wall, I ran over to our apartment. I found Andy in the recliner with my brother and our friends around him. I walked up and he apologized, “I’m sorry, are you mad at me?”
“Of course not, beanie,” my nickname for him, “Of course I’m not mad at you.”
As we heard the sirens approaching our building from the outside, my brother asked Andy several questions to ensure he hadn’t had a stroke.
“What is your name?”
“Andrew Cray.”
“Where are we?”
“My apartment in Washington, DC.”
“What is today?”
He got the date wrong by a few days, but also answered, “my wedding day.”
The EMT’s entered the apartment and made their way through the medical equipment and wedding supplies. With the caterer preparing the small amount of food for our wedding in the next room, the EMTs performed an EKG and consulted with my brother. Andy was adamant that he did not want to go into the hospital, knowing what that would mean for our wedding and for his chances at chemotherapy. With his vitals normal, the EMT’s acquiesced.
As they left, I asked Andy if he wanted to move the wedding into the apartment or to cancel it all together. He shook his head and said, “No, this is happening.”
As I walked back across the hall, my brother informed me that he wasn’t sure Andy could make it up to the roof in his wheelchair, but that we would see how he did over the next half an hour.
But my Andy rallied. With the help of three people, Andy was able to get into his dress clothes and, with oxygen in tow, he made it up to the roof.
I exited the elevator just as Andy was being wheeled onto the rooftop patio. As the elevator door slid open, I could see the back of Andy’s wheelchair moving down the narrow path to the opening on our roof where our wedding was to be held. As he approached the fifty family members, both blood and chosen, they started to applaud for him, unaware that just an hour earlier, EMT’s were in our apartment ready to take him to the hospital.
Clearly feeling as though he had conquered the world, Andy lifted his arm in triumph and gave the group a big thumbs up, his trademark. After they quickly switched Andy from the portable to stationary oxygen supply, I made my way out to the roof on my father’s arm.
I had no idea what my wedding was going to look like. Our friends had put it all together for us in five days with hardly anything more than a color preference from us. And it was beautiful. The bouquets included my favorite flowers — purple orchids and blue hydrangeas — a fact that was unknown by the friend who ordered them. Andy was stationed under a white tent surrounded by flowers and sitting in front of our dream officiate, Bishop Gene Robinson.
As I approached Andy, I could see him starting to choke up. We had always talked about getting married and he had asked me several times if I thought we would some day.
My mother says that it was clear Andy loved me from the first time we met and clearly always wanted to spend the rest of his life with me. I don’t know about that, but what I do know is that we were committed to each other for life long before we got married. Our ceremony on that day merely formalized, before family and by the state, what was already a reality between us. We had been through so much together. We were already bound together by both the superficial, like our love of reality television, and the deep, like our mutual commitment to equality and social justice. We had each walked beside the other during some of the most trying times in our lives.
Fortunately, we got through the ceremony without any problems. We exchanged our rings and committed ourselves to one another. He had forgotten the cheat sheet downstairs, so he improvised his lines. Shortening them so they wouldn’t make him short of breath or cause him to cough.
After taking a few pictures and receiving a few hugs, Andy was exhausted and decided to go back to our apartment with a few of his friends. I remained on the roof with our remaining guests for another hour and then went back downstairs to be with my new husband.
The first thirty-six hours of our marriage were a lot like the previous thirty-six. There was nagging over his food intake, a lot of sleeping, and a boatload of comforting reality television.
What was different was that Andy had three more episodes like the one he had just an hour before the wedding. Each time, he was about to move from his recliner to his wheelchair or from his wheelchair to the recliner. Andy was a nervous person and would clearly get anxious before these moves. As he got anxious, he was unable to adjust his breathing, would get light-headed, and begin to pass out. As we would temporarily up his oxygen and call his name, he would return to us. Within seconds, he would shake himself out of it and look at me. In typical Andy fashion, he would say, “I’m so sorry, love, are you mad at me?”
“No beanie, I’m not mad at you at all. I love you so much,” I would reply each time.

The next morning, by the grace of God, Andy was able to make it down to the car for the forty-minute drive to Johns Hopkins Hospital with me and his ex-girlfriend, Heather, to begin treatment that was meant to perpetuate his life.
We arrived at Hopkins to first meet with his oncologist prior to starting chemotherapy. As the doctor walked into the exam room, we knew things had changed. He hadn’t yet known about Andy’s episodes, but the blood work that was done the previous week showed some concerning numbers. The doctor warned us that we may not be able to proceed with chemotherapy today, but that he would send Andy up to the infusion room for some liquid, since he was, despite my attempts to prevent it, clearly dehydrated. After a few hours, he would re-evaluate Andy and determine what, if any treatment, he could give him. He also ordered more blood work and told us that he would come meet with us in the infusion center after the tests came back.
As we waited in the center for more information, it was clear that Andy’s situation was getting worse. In just a matter of a few hours, his oxygen hunger had increased dramatically. I heard rumblings from the nurses outside our station that one of the patients would need to be admitted.
I stepped outside and approached his infusion nurse and asked her what was happening. She said that they were going to have to admit Andy today. Both of us had been told that being admitted would make it highly unlikely that he was healthy enough for any life-perpetuating medical care.
I offered to tell him the news that I knew would shatter him. As I walked back, I opened the curtain with the nurse following behind. I tried as gently as possible to tell him that they were going to admit him. Ever the optimist, he knew what that meant, but he didn’t give up hope. He talked about how they could try to stabilize him again so that he could be ready for chemotherapy. Just as he gave me a wink of assurance, the medical oncologist returned and informed us that some of the tests had come back and the concerning numbers had jumped higher.
A few minutes later, I met with the oncologist outside of Andy’s station. He said that intubation, or the process of putting Andy on a respirator, was possibly imminent. He asked if he had any wishes on that front. He didn’t have to say what that meant as the fly-killing doctor from two weeks ago had already painted the grim picture: if intubated, Andy would never be able to be weaned off, nor would he likely ever wake up. I asked the oncologist how long we had to have the conversation. After all, he had just been given the news that he was being admitted. Couldn’t I give him some time? “Unfortunately, no.”
After Andy had been “upgraded rooms,” as I had jokingly put it to him during the admittance process, I said that for “precautionary reasons,” we needed to talk about the question of intubation. The nurse brought us a blank advance directive and we sat down for the first extended conversation since our wedding: whether or not he would want his life continued in a persistent vegetative state.
He stared at the paper for a good ten minutes. He asked if we had to talk about it now, but Heather and I informed him that the doctor said we needed to, again “as a precaution.” He sat with his pen for another few minutes and finally marked the box that said, “If my doctors certify that I am in a persistent vegetative state… and there is no reasonable expectation that I will ever regain consciousness…Keep me comfortable and allow natural death to occur.”
I called our family and friends to ask them to travel to Baltimore to be with us. His mother, step-father, father, and my mother came immediately. For the next two days, a rotating group of ten to twenty people stuck by our side at the hospital. The same group, which had organized our celebration of love just three days before, stood by in a circle of love in his hospital room as he slept more and more.
A day after he was admitted, he was unconscious nearly all the time. Every once in a while, he would regain consciousness, smile at us, squeeze our hands, and ask that his oxygen be turned up. He would rotate his fingers with a look of urgency in his eyes signaling his desire for more oxygen. Each time, we would have to inform him that the oxygen was as high as it could go.
Wednesday the 27th was the last day Andrew was awake. Just before he went back to sleep for the final time, I told him, “I love you.” He raised his eyebrows and mustered the energy to say four words back. These words would be the only words he would speak that day and the last words he would physically speak ever. “I love you, too.”
We were told the next morning it was probably only a matter of time. And echoing a conversation I had the night before with one of our best friends, the nurse said that sometimes you have to lean in and tell the person that it is “okay to go” because they are afraid of disappointing people. The group of five people in his room looked at each other and all thought, “that is so Andy.” So one by one we all leaned in and told Andy that it was “okay to go.”
I was both the first and last person to convey this message to him. I leaned in both times and said, “I love you, beanie, I’m going to miss you every day, but it’s okay for you to go. No one is going to be mad at you.” I then slipped a handwritten note into his clenched fist, which by then had become fairly cold. “You are loved,” it read.
Three hours later, his vitals began to drop. I called for everyone in the lounge to come in. We all stood there as his oxygenation level — the key stat for someone battling cancer in the lungs — dropped from a reasonably health 95 to 85. Then to 75. Then to 65. His numbers were reaching fatal levels.
Crying, we gathered around Andy in that circle of love which remained constant throughout his final stay in the hospital. A rainbow of family — gay and straight, trans and cisgender — held tightly onto him. His breathing diminished. His heart rate slowed. And at 3:30 PM on Thursday the 28th, with the gifts from our wedding five days earlier still unwrapped back in our apartment, Andy passed away.
That night, the group, which gathered to plan our wedding, gathered to plan his funeral. Bishop Gene, who had officiated at our wedding, would preside. Those who had stood at his bedside with me would eulogize him. The family of relatives and friends would join together again to mourn his passing.

His service was held at St. Thomas’ Episcopal Church in Washington, DC on Saturday. Bishop Gene wore the same frocks that he wore at the wedding the weekend before; he explained that Sunday’s wedding was a celebration of life and love, and so too was today.
Tributes from all around the country began to flow in. From the Mayor of DC, officials at the White House, state and national equality organizations, and from friends, relatives, acquaintances, and total strangers around the world who had been touched by Andy’s story and his work.
Andy was one of the amazing few who could draw upon their own life to help others without actually talking about himself. He worked tirelessly to bring joy, meaning, health, and fulfillment to others lives. He had stood up to the intolerance and prejudice in the world to live authentically, only to have cancer end his life a few years after he began to live true to himself.
There are many lessons I take from his passing, but the biggest is that though we may feel invincible, we never know how much time we have left. Life is too short for outdated dogmas to impede our own pursuit of happiness. Despite growing up in a progressive family and with open-minded friends, the expectation from the outside world that we must live, love, and identify based on one fact at birth, kept Andrew inside of himself for too long.
In his early twenties he finally had the courage to be happy and complete. Getting cancer was not a choice. There was nothing that he could have done to avoid his ending. But our society’s prejudice that kept him from being complete for most of his life is a choice. For Andrew, and for all the people who simply want to make the most of their lives, let us make the choice to stop the hate and to let love, light, and authenticity flourish.
And yet despite this tragic end, it’s clear that Andy lived with more purpose and realness in 28 years than most find in 60 or 80 years. He loved and was loved. He befriended and mentored without regard for status or interest in gain. He gave others courage through the bravery he demonstrated; not just throughout his struggle with cancer over the last year, but also through the authenticity with which he lived his own life every day. Through his work, he helped open up health care to hundreds of thousands of LGBT Americans and spearheaded the national effort to ensure that transgender people can access the care they desperately need, but are too often denied.
Few, if any, have ever taught me as much as Andy did. He taught me about life, perseverance, compassion, optimism, fidelity, and passion. He was one of the most impressive people I’ve ever met, yet one of the humblest (it’s amazing he could tolerate me). Even in his final weeks, he cried less about his own luck or plight, but about the things he would no longer be able to do for others. That was Andy.
So thank you for coming into my life, my bean. So many medical professionals said, given your state, you shouldn’t have made it to the wedding. But you did. I don’t know if you held on for me or for you. But, in the end, you gave me the best gift anyone could ever ask for. Thank you for sending me that first Facebook message in August of 2012 and thank you for marrying me one year ago. But most of all, thank you for being you.
‘Tis strange how men find time to hate, When life is all too short for love; But we, away from our own kind, A different life can live and prove. And early on a summer’s morn, As I go walking out with you, We’ll help the sun with our warm breath To clear away the dew, My love, To clear away the morning dew.

Political nerd, LGBT advocate, Delawarean, AU alum, board member at Equality Delaware, LGBT Progress Staff.  All opinions are my own and inherently right ;)
Here there is hope, humor, and help as you deepen your connection to others, yourself, and to your work.

I was looking for a more effective way to consume all the content I save during the day and fit it inside my busy schedule. I mostly save articles I see on Medium (+ occasionally articles from big tech websites), and my bookmark section is growing almost daily. The only thing is that I have no time to read them all. Even by end of the day… I hate myself for this, because I’m missing so many great stories.
I was thinking someone could read the articles to me (if I can’t handle it myself)… Maybe some app? Text-to-audio?
On the other hand, I still want to feel the emotion of the story and not listen to some robot reading. Every. Word. Separately. With. No. Accent.
Sooooooo what now?

I listen to a lot of podcasts, shows or talks in the background while I work or when I walk to the office, and I think it could be awesome to do the same thing with my saved Medium articles — listen to them as audio instead of reading them as text.
The whole functionality allowing this feature could be handled inside the existing mobile app. There is no need for a standalone app.
How?
Let’s take a look on the existing Medium iOS app and its article detail screen. Focus on the white bar in the bottom of the screen, which is used to introduce features available for each article. You can see “bookmark,” “like” and “share” icons. What about adding one more icon that allows you to play the article as audio?
It fits perfectly with the overall style of the app and fits the existing usage pattern of having similar features at the bottom of the screen.


If you want play the article as audio, you can just tap this little icon to open the audio player, and that’s it. Happy listening!
Nice, huh? Let's focus on the technical side now…


You may be wondering where all the audio content could be made, what kind of text-to-voice software could be used in the background, etc. I think there is no need for such things. Writers could record themselves reading their own work and attach it to the story as an audio file.
Of course, adding an audio version of you article should not be required. Once you finish writing your story in the current version of the app, you are asked to add a few tags to help readers find your story. I think there is the best opportunity to ask for one more thing — a recording of your story.
Note: Users should not be pushed to record anything, but if they are asked to do something extra, they may feel they are improving their readers’ experience by allowing them to consume articles in a new way.
To give you a better idea about how it could look, I made a quick mockup to compare the current version and my version:

I also tried to design a recording screen using the existing UI style and colors. Again, the whole flow fits the existing style of the app. It’s a bit similar to adding tags, which is already something you can do.
All you have to do is press the microphone button and start reading. I was also thinking about adding some kind of indicator for highlighting words to help you maintain rhythm/speed while recording your story. But I wasn’t sure about the correct implementation. It may be confusing for users if they loose track on this indicator, and it could mess up their recording.
Once you finish recording, you can save it and go back to the “publish” screen, which will be in a different (finished) state. You can see the tags you selected and attach the audio file you just recorded. Hit “publish,” and your story is out…
Of course, this is just a quick concept I came up with in a few hours. But imagine how many things could be added soon or later. Just to mention a few of them:
Got more ideas? Feel free to add comments :)

Is it just me, or do you guys have the same problem? Let me know in comments or write a short response to this article. It would also be interesting so know what the Medium staff thinks. I’ll keep you posted in case they contact me.
— — — — — — — — — —
Let's be friends!
Ales Nesetril, UI/UX designer with passion for minimalism & simplicity, currently working for STRV between Prague and San Francisco.
Twitter, Dribbble, Behance, Instagram, Email
STRV is a top-tier, one-stop mobile app development shop working with top-tier startups from Y Combinator and 500Startups, among others, across offices in San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York and Prague.
User Interface Designer with passion for minimalism & simplicity, currently at @STRVcom — #ui/ux, #skateboarding, #electronicmusic, #ps3
The Medium Community







For more detailed reads of the sketches above:
Product design director @ Facebook. Self-professed tyro and lover of food, games, words. Follow me as @joulee or on  www.juliezhuo.com
A collection of essays by Julie Zhuo on design, building products, and observing life.


In this quick write-up, we’ll cover how to take advantage of your existing knowledge of features in Sublime Text and apply them to another powerful tool in your arsenal — the Chrome DevTools.
Thanks to several modern tools including DevTools, JSBin and Codepen relying on the excellent CodeMirror editor, keyboard bindings like those in Sublime Text are more readily available elsewhere than they have been.
Let’s assume for the rest of this write-up that we’ll primarily be working inside the DevTools Sources panel — a feature which, when paired with Workspaces gives you a powerful in-browser editor.


Very similar to Sublime, DevTools has a Goto “Anything” dialog. This can take you to a specific file, a line number or a method definition. You can bring up the Goto “Anything” search using Ctrl/Cmd + P. This lets you search/filter through files just by starting to type in the files name. To search for a method — such as a JavaScript method or a CSS selector, use Ctrl/Cmd + Shift + P and start typing in the method name.

`Ctrl` + `G` will toggle a dialog allowing you to jump to a specific line in a file. If you wish to go to a line in the current file, bring up the dialog and type in a colon followed by the line number you are interested in. For example, :25 will take you to line 25. If you wish to go to a line in a different file, type in the file name, a colon and then the line number (e.g app.js:25).
Go to end of a line: `Alt` + `Right` or `Cmd` + `Right`Go to the start of a line: `Alt` + `Left` or `Cmd` + `Left`

Go to the start of a file: `Alt` + `Up` or `Cmd` + `Up`Go to the end of a file: `Alt` + `Down` or `Cmd` + `Down`
Go one word left: `Ctrl`+ `Left` or `Alt` + `Left`Go one word right: `Ctrl` + `Right` or `Alt` + `Right`
Go up a line: `Up`Go down a line: `Down`

A caret is that blinking line that indicates where you’re typing at the moment. Similar to Sublime Text, DevTools can have as many carets as you want.
Adding multiple Carets
You can start playing with carets by opening any supported file in Sources, then selecting each line by holding down `Cmd`/`Alt` and clicking wherever you would like to add a new caret.
For example, if you have multi-line JavaScript that needs to be prefixed, edited or wrapped in quotes, multiple carets can make this a breeze.
The following steps will quickly get every line selected:
1. Click on the first line2. While holding down `⌘` and `Option`3. Drag your mouse through the rest of the lines
You should now have a cursor somewhere on each line.
Use multiple carets from the front of a line
Use `Cmd` + `←` ( `Alt` + `←` for Windows/Linux) to bring all cursors to the front of the line, and then hold down `Option` while using the arrow keys to jump by word. When in front of the file name, simply type in your prefix and you’re done!
Wrap with Quotes or Brackets
Highlight the words with `Cmd` + `Shift` + `←` ( `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `←` for Windows/Linux) and type an opening quote or bracket. Dev tools will wrap each word in the selected quote or bracket.
Column selection
Carets can similarly be used for selecting custom columns of text. Hold down `Alt` and then click and drag over the region of text you would like to select. DevTools will highlight the area and you can now copy or edit it as needed.
Carets and matching words
Carets can also be used for highlighting specific words. Select a word in your editor (it can be a variable, method, or anything really). DevTools will highlight other instances of this word with a border around them.
Now use `Cmd` + `D` (or `Alt` + `D`) and DevTools will highlight and place multiple cursors on the matching words. This is particularly useful during batch rename operations. Hitting D a few more time while still holding ⌘ selects the next instance of the selection found. By hitting ⌘, then D three times, you can select three iterations of the text.

When working with non-complex pieces of code, you might find it tricky to find corresponding opening and closing brackets with your naked eye. `Ctrl` + `M` allows you to instantly move your cursor there. Using it twice will jump to its opening or closing counterpart.

We know the importance of indentation. It helps keep our code readable and easy to understand. To increase or decrease the current line’s indent, use the shortcuts below:
Indent text: `Tab`Unindent text: `Shift` + `Tab`

If you need to comment/uncomment a piece of code, the same shortcuts you would use for this in Sublime Text also apply:
Comment text: `Cmd`/`Ctrl` + `/`Uncomment text: `Cmd`/`Ctrl` + `/` on the same section of text.
This works across all languages and works pretty well with lines or whole selections.

When typing values in the DevTools Sources panel, you’re presented with autocompletions as you type. If however you dismiss these and would like to manually toggle autocompletion, you can do so with:
`Ctrl` + `Space`

You can cut, copy and paste text using the same shortcuts you’re used to in other editors:
Cut: `Cmd` + `X`Copy: `Cmd` + `C`Paste: `Cmd` + `V`Undo: `Cmd` + `Z`Soft undo: `Cmd` + `U`Redo: `Cmd` + `Y`

Note: ⇞ and ⇟ are page up and page down. On an Apple keyboard, you can page up/down by holding fn + ↑/↓
In the Sources pane, you can select a numeric value and easily increment or decrement the value using your keyboard. Highlight the value and then:
Increment CSS unit by 1: `Option` + `↑`Decrement CSS unit by 1: `Option` + `↓`Increment CSS unit by 10: `Option` + `⇟`Decrement CSS unit by 10: `Option` + `⇟`
The Styles pane also supports shortcuts for incrementing/decrementing values.
Increment value: ↑Decrement value: ↓Increment by 10: ⇞ or ⇧↑Decrement by 10: ⇟ or ⇧↓Increment by 100: ⇧⇞Decrement by 100: ⇧⇟Increment by 0.1: ⌥↑Decrement by 0.1: ⌥↓

DevTools can now also preserve your position cursor history in Sources. This lets you cycle through your previous editing locations using Alt- and Alt+:

If you’ve found the above shortcuts helpful, you can pull most of them up via the DevTools settings menu. It looks a little like this:

The Settings page also allows you to configure how the editor behaves. This includes customizing the default indendation, toggling bracket matching, autocompletion and the display of whitespace characters.


Similar to your editor, the DevTools UI can also be customized (the theming for the syntax highlighting, the colors across each of the panels, the look of UI elements like tabs). Some of these themes make intelligent use of color to highlight the key pieces of UI in DevTools without taking your focus away from the code.
Some of our choice picks for DevTools themes are the following:
To install a theme:
Boom. You should be good to go. Themes can be found in a number of places, including the Web Store, DevThemez.com and GitHub.

DevTools also supports a few nice debugging helpers that can further augment your daily editing & debugging workflow. For instance, while debugging you can preview the inline values of JavaScript variables at the current point in time. Super powerful.

We hope you’ve found these DevTools tips helpful!.
Many of the SublimeText equivalents we’ve covered here work equally as well in other editors and we encourage you to spend time learning about the shortcuts in apps you use regularly. They’re powerful stuff and can make a HUUUGE difference to your workflow.
If you’re hungry for more and want to continue improving your workflow, grab Wes’ Sublime Text Book + Videos — use the code DEVTOOLS for $11 off. You can also check-out the first episode of Totally Tooling Tips for a look at Sublime Text plugins.
Heartz ❤
Addy Osmani and Wes Bos
Engineer at Google working with the Chrome & Polymer teams • Creator of TodoMVC, @Yeoman, Material Design Lite, Web Starter Kit• Passionate about web tooling
Engineering and technology articles for developers, written and curated by Googlers. The views expressed are those of the authors and don’t necessarily reflect those of Google.

It’s the break-up that nobody talks about.
The one that tears you apart in ways your high school boyfriends and hazy nights with strangers at the bar never really prepared you for.
The hardest goodbye.
Your college boyfriend might have promised you forever and always, but deep down, you knew that he never really meant it — and even if he did, it was only because he was just as naive as you were. There was always a hint of doubt in the back of your mind.
But you’ve never, ever looked into your best friend’s eyes and thought “Maybe one day, we’ll never speak again.”
You’re eight years old and bruised from falling off your bike, face-first onto solid concrete, bloody knees and scraped elbows, but she’s next to you, holding your hand.
You’re fifteen and you’ve locked yourself in the school bathroom, tears streaming down your face from your very first heartbreak, but she’s handing you tissues under the door, insisting that you skip sixth period together for a much needed ice cream break.
You’re eighteen and it’s your third night on campus, and you’re huddled together on the bottom bunk watching a rerun of Friends, and you tell her about how scared and lost and excited you are for the next four years, and she whispers back — me too.
You’re twenty-one and thirteen shots in, wondering if this is really how you should’ve celebrated your birthday, but she’s right behind you, holding back your hair as you regurgitate a night of regrets into the graffiti-ed stalls of the local dive.
You’re twenty-three and waving goodbye from the train platform, as she stares out the window and your eyes meet — and you’re both off to cities on opposite coasts, knowing that the miles and the times zones that separate you will inevitably tear you apart.
Then before you know it, you’re twenty-five and so caught up, lost in your busy schedule of nine-to-five meetings, soul cycling, and a disastrous string of first dates. You’re checking your phone between errands when you see a text from a number you haven’t dialed in years, saying — “Hey, I’m in town, let’s catch up over coffee?”
So you’re sitting across the table and staring at the girl who first met your gaze across the brightly-decorated first grade classroom, who walked over to your desk and declared, “Let’s be best friends.”
She looks up from the murky brown swirl of half and half dissolving in the bitter cup of watered-down espresso. It’s the same blue eyes and freckled smile you’ve always known—and she laughs quietly as she tells you about this guy she’s seeing, and this project she’s working on, and this juice cleanse that she’s planning to try before her trip to Cabo — but it’s all a flutter of small talk and meaningless words.
You smile politely and look away.
The drifting dust sparkles in the dim cafe light, and the skies outside are a musty shade of grey.
All you can think about is skinned knees, mint chocolate chip ice cream, Ross and Rachel, birthday shots, graduation smiles, and that feeling of losing each other forever.
Everything is almost exactly the same as it once was.
But the coffee tastes burnt, and the afternoon fades, and you’re nothing more than strangers once again.
Avid lover of green tea, old films, classic novels, and the 1950s. Always trying to get ahead of light. I stand for #feminism and #womenintech.
Sharing our ideas and experiences

I visited Google a few weeks ago and, after almost getting arrested, my mind was blown.
First, Claudia wandered into the garage where they were actually making or fixing the driverless cars. When they finally realized she was wandering around, security had to escort her out.
We got scared and we thought we were going to get in trouble or thrown out.
Then we met with a friend high up at Google and learned some of the things Google was working on.
Nothing was related to search. Everything was related to curing cancer (a bracelet that can make all the cancer cells in your body move towards the bracelet), automating everything (cars just one of those things), Wi-Fi everywhere (Project Loon) and solving other “billion person problems”.
A problem wasn’t considered worthy unless it could solve a problem for a billion people.
So now Alphabet is aligning itself towards this strategy: a holding company that owns and invests in other companies that can solve billion person problems.
It’s not divided up by money. It’s divided up by mission.
I want to do this in my personal life also.
Just analyzing Larry Page’s quotes from the past ten years is a guidebook for “billion person success” and for personal success.
Here are some of his quotes (in bold):
“If you’re changing the world, you’re working on important things. You’re excited to get up in the morning.”
To have well-being in life you need three things: A) a feeling of competence or growth. B) good emotional relationships. C) freedom of choice.
Being able to wake up excited in the morning is an outcome of well-being.
Feeling like every day you are working on a billion-person problem will give you those three aspects of well-being.
At the very least, when I wake up I try to remember to ask: Who can I help today?
Because I’m a superhero and this is my secret identity.
“Especially in technology, we need revolutionary change, not incremental change.”
Too often we get stuck in “good enough”. If you build a business that supports your family and maybe provides for retirement then that is “good enough”.
If you write a book that sells 1000 copies then that is “good enough.”
You ever wonder why planes have gotten slower since 1965? The Dreamliner 787 is actually slower than the 747.
That’s ok. It’s good enough to get people across the world and save on fuel costs.
It’s only the people who push past the “good enough syndrome” that we hear about: Elon Musk building a space ship. Larry Page indexing all knowledge. Elizabeth Holmes potentially diagnosing all diseases with a pin prick.
Isaac Asimov wrote classic science fiction like “The Foundation Series” but it wasn’t good enough for him. He ended up writing 500 more books, writing more books than anyone in history.
Larry Page keeps pushing so that every day he wakes up knowing he’s going to go past “good enough” that day.
What does your “good enough” day look like. What’s one thing that moves you past that?
“My job as a leader is to make sure everybody in the company has great opportunities, and that they feel they’re having a meaningful impact and are contributing to the good of society.”
Whenever I’ve managed companies and have had the small opportunity to be a leader I’ve judged my success on only one thing:
Does the employee at night go home and call his or her parents and say, “guess what I did today!”
I’m not sure this always worked. But I do think Larry Page lifts all his employees to try to be better versions of themselves, to try to surpass him, to try and change the world.
If each employee can say, “who did I help today” and have an answer, then that is a good leader.
Empowering others, empowers you.
“Lots of companies don’t succeed over time. What do they fundamentally do wrong? They usually miss the future.”
The stock market is near all time highs. And yet every company in the original Dow Jones market index (except for GE) has gone out of business.
Even US Steel, which built every building in the country for an entire century, has gone bankrupt.
Never let the practical get in the way of the possible.
It’s practical to focus on what you can do right now.
But give yourself time in your life to wonder what is possible and to make even the slightest moves in that direction.
We’re at maybe 1% of what is possible. Despite the faster change, we’re still moving slow relative to the opportunities we have. I think a lot of that is because of the negativity… Every story I read is Google vs someone else. That’s boring. We should be focusing on building the things that don’t exist.
Sometimes I want to give up on whatever I’m working on. I’m not working on major billion person problems.
And sometimes I think I write too much about the same thing. Every day I try to think, “What new thing can I write today” and I actually get depressed when I can’t think of something totally new.
But I am working on things that I think can help people. And if you are out side of people’s comfort zones, if you are breaking the normal rules of society, people will try to pull you down.
Larry Page didn’t want to be defined by Google for his entire life. He wants to be defined by what he hasn’t yet done. What he might even be afraid to do.
I wonder what my life would be like if I started doing all the things I was afraid to do. If I started defining my life by all the things I have yet to do.
“Many leaders of big organizations, I think, don’t believe that change is possible. But if you look at history, things do change, and if your business is static, you’re likely to have issues.”
Guess which company had the original patent that ultimately Larry Page derived his own patent (that created google) from?
Go ahead. Think a second. Guess.
An employee of this company created the patent and tried to get them to use it to catalog information on the web.
They refused.
So Robin Li, an employee of The Wall Street Journal, quit the newspaper of capitalism (who owned his patent), moved to China (a communist country), and created Baidu.
And Larry Page modified the patent, filed his own, and created Google.
And the Wall Street Journal got swallowed up by Rupert Murdoch and is dying a slow death.
“I think as technologists we should have some safe places where we can try out new things and figure out the effect on society.”
A friend of mine is writing a novel but is afraid to publish it. “Maybe it will be bad,” he told me.
Fortunately we live in a world where experimentation is easy. You can make a 30 page novel, publish it on Amazon for nothing, use an assumed name, and test to see if people like it.
Heck, I’ve done it. And it was fun.
Mac Lethal is a rapper who has gotten over 200 million views on his YouTube videos. Even Ellen had him on her show to demonstrate his skills.
I asked him, “do you get nervous if one of your videos gets less views than others?”
He told me valuable advice: “Nobody remembers your bad stuff. They only remember your good stuff.”
I live by that.
“If we were motivated by money, we would have sold the company a long time ago and ended up on a beach.”
Larry Page and Sergey Brin wanted to be academics. When they first patented Google, they tried to sell to Yahoo for $1 million (ONE MILLION DOLLARS).
When Yahoo laughed them out the door, they tried to sell to Excite for $750,000.
Excite laughed them out the door. Now an ex-employee of Google is the CEO of Yahoo. And the founder of Excite works at Google. Google dominates.
Money is a side effect of trying to help others. Trying to solve problems. Trying to move beyond the “good enough”.
So many people ask: “how do I get traffic?” That’s the wrong question.
If you ask every day, “How did I help people today?” then you will have more traffic and money than you could have imagined.
“Invention is not enough. Tesla invented the electric power we use, but he struggled to get it out to people. You have to combine both things: invention and innovation focus, plus the company that can commercialize things and get them to people.”
Everyone quotes the iconic story of Thomas Edison “failing” 10,000 times to get the electric lightbulb working.
I put failing in quotes because he was doing what any scientist does. He does many experiments until one works.
But what he did that was truly remarkable was convince New York City a few weeks later to light up their downtown using his lights.
The first time ever a city was lit up at night with electricity.
That’s innovation. That’s how the entire world got lit up.
“If you say you want to automate cars and save people’s lives, the skills you need for that aren’t taught in any particular discipline. I know — I was interested in working on automating cars when I was a Ph.D. student in 1995.”
Too often we get labeled by our degree and our job titles. Larry Page and Elon Musk were computer science majors. Now they build cars and space ships.
David Chang was a competitive golfer as a kid, majored in religious studies in college, and then had random gopher jobs in his 20s.
The gopher jobs all happened to be in restaurants so he became familiar with how the business was run.
Then he started probably the most popular restaurant in NYC, momofoku. A dozen or so restaurants later, he is one of the most successful restauranteurs in history.
Peter Thiel worked as a lawyer in one of the top law firms in NY. When he quit in order to become an entrepreneur, he told me that many of his colleagues came up to him and said, “I can’t believe you are escaping”.
Escaping the labels and titles and hopes that everyone else has for us is one of the first steps in Choosing Ourselves for the success we are meant to have.
We define our lives from our imagination and the things we create with our hands.
“It really matters whether people are working on generating clean energy or improving transportation or making the Internet work better and all those things. And small groups of people can have a really huge impact.”
What I love about this quote is that he combines big problems with small groups.
A small group of people created Google. Not Procter & Gamble. Or AT&T.
Even at Apple, when Steve Jobs wanted to create the Macintosh, he moved his small group to a separate building so they wouldn’t get bogged down in the big corporate bureaucracy that Apple was becoming.
Ultimately, they fired him for being too far from the corporate message.
Years later, when Apple was failing, they brought him back. What did he do? He cut most of the products and put people into small groups to solve big problems.
Before his death he revolutionized the movie industry, the computer industry, the music industry, TVs, and now even watches (watch sales have plummeted after the release of the Apple Watch).
All of this from a guy who finished one semester of studying calligraphy in college before dropping out.
Studying the history of Apple is like studying a microcosm of the history of how to create big ideas. Larry Page is recreating this with his new corporate structure.
“We don’t have as many managers as we should, but we would rather have too few than too many.”
The 20th century was the century of middle-class corporatism. It even became a “law” called “The Peter Principle” — everyone rises to their level of incompetence.
One of the problems society is having now is that the entire middle layer of management is being demoted, outsourced, replaced by technology, and fired.
This is not a bad or a good thing (although it’s scary). But it’s a return to the role of masters and apprentices without bureaucracy and paperwork in the middle.
It’s how things get done. When ideas go from the head into action with few barriers in the middle.
To be a successful employee, you have to align your interests with those of the company, come up with ideas that further help the customers, and have the mandate to act on those ideas, whether they work or not.
That’s why the employee who wrote much of the code inside the Google search engine, Craig Silverstein, is now a billionaire.
Where is he now? He’s an employee at online education company, The Khan Academy.
“If you ask an economist what’s driven economic growth, it’s been major advances in things that mattered — the mechanization of farming, mass manufacturing, things like that. The problem is, our society is not organized around doing that.”
Google is now making advances in driverless cars, delivery drones, and other methods of automation.
Everyone gets worried that this will cost jobs. But just look at history. Cars didn’t ruin the horse industry. Everyone simply adjusted.
TV didn’t replace books. Everything adjusted. The VCR didn’t shut down movies.
The Internet didn’t replace face to face communication (well, the jury is still out).
“What is the one sentence summary of how you change the world? Always work hard on something uncomfortably exciting!”
Not everyone wants to create a driverless car. Or clean energy. Or solve a billion person problem.
But I have a list of things that are uncomfortably exciting to me.
They are small, stupid things. Like I’d like to write a novel. Or perform standup comedy. Or maybe start another business based on my ideas for helping people.
Every day I wake up a tiny bit afraid. But I also try to push myself a little closer in those directions. I know then that’s how I learn and grow.
Sometimes I push forward. Sometimes I don’t. I want to get more comfortable with being uncomfortable.
“I do think there is an important artistic component in what we do. As a technology company I’ve tried to really stress that.”
Nobody knows what the definition of Art is.
How about: something that doesn’t exist except in the imagination, that you then bring out into the real world that has some mix of entertainment, enlightenment, and betterment.
I don’t know. Something like that.
Certainly the iPad is a work of art. And the iPad has created works of art. And when I first saw a driverless car I thought, “that’s beautiful”.
I’m going to try and put my fingerprint on something today. And maybe it will be art.
“The idea that everyone should slavishly work so they do something inefficiently so they keep their job — that just doesn’t make any sense to me. That can’t be the right answer.”
We’ve been hypnotized into thinking that the “normal life” is a “working life”.
If you don’t “go to work” then you must be sick or on the tiny bit of vacation allotted to you each year.
What if everything you did you can inject a little bit of leisure, a little bit of fun into it.
I have fun writing, except when I think I have to meet a deadline (work). I have fun making a business that people actually use except when I think about money too much (work).
When you are at the crossroads and your heart loves one path and doesn’t love the other, forget about which path has the money and the work, take the path you love.
“We want to build technology that everybody loves using, and that affects everyone. We want to create beautiful, intuitive services and technologies that are so incredibly useful that people use them twice a day. Like they use a toothbrush. There aren’t that many things people use twice a day.”
What a great idea for a list of the day!
What are ten things that can be invented that people would use twice a day?
“You need to invent things and you need to get them to people. You need to commercialize those inventions. Obviously, the best way we’ve come up with doing that is through companies.”
I was speaking to Naveen Jain, who made his billions on an early search engine, InfoSpace.
He just started a company to mine rare earth minerals on the Moon.
But his real goal is extra-planetary colonization.
Somehow we got around to the question of why have a company in the middle of that. He has billions. He can just go straight for the colonization part.
He said, “Every idea has to be sustainable. Profitability is proof that an idea is sustainable.”
“You may think using Google’s great, but I still think it’s terrible.”
K. Anders Ericsson made famous the “10,000 hour rule” popularized later by Malcom Gladwell.
The rule is: if you practice WITH INTENT for 10,000 hours then you will be world-class.
He then wondered why typists would often reach a certain speed level and then never improve no matter how many hours.
After doing research, its because they forgot the “With intent” part. They were satisfied with “good enough”.
You have to constantly come up with new metrics to measure yourself, to compete against yourself, to better the last plateau you reached.
Google is great. But it can be better. Having this mindset always forces you to push beyond the comfort zone.
Once they changed the way typists viewed their skills (by recreating the feeling of “beginner’s mind”) the typists continued to get faster.
“We have a mantra: don’t be evil, which is to do the best things we know how for our users, for our customers, for everyone. So I think if we were known for that, it would be a wonderful thing.”
Many people argue whether or not Google has succeeded at this. That’s not the point.
The point is: Values before Money.
A business is a group of people with a goal to solve a problem. Values might be: we want to solve a problem, we want the customer to be happy, we want employees to feel like they have upward mobility, etc.
Once you lose your values, you’ll lost the money as well. This why family-run businesses often die by the third generation (“Shirt sleeves to shirt sleeves in three generations).
The values of the founder got diluted through his descendants until the company failed.
I spoke to Dick Yuengling about this (CEO of the largest independent beer maker and a fifth generation business).
His family found an interesting way to solve the problem. The business is not inherited. Each generation has to BUY the business from the generation before it.
To do that, each generation needs its own values, its new way of doing things that keeps the brand fresh and ongoing.
“I think it is often easier to make progress on mega-ambitious dreams. Since no one else is crazy enough to do it, you have little competition. In fact, there are so few people this crazy that I feel like I know them all by first name.”
Our parents have our best interests at heart and tell us how to be good adults.
Our schools have our best interests.
Our friends, colleagues, sometimes our bosses, sometimes government, think they have our best interests.
But it’s only when everyone thinks you are crazy that you know you are going to create something that surprises everyone and really makes your own unique handprint on the world.
And because you went out of the comfort zone, you’re only competing against the few other people as crazy as you are.
“You know what it’s like to wake up in the middle of the night with a vivid dream? And you know that if you don’t have a pencil and pad by the bed, it will be completely gone by the next morning. Sometimes it’s important to wake up and stop dreaming. When a really great dream shows up, grab it.”
For every article I’ve ever written, there’s at least ten more I left behind in the middle of the night thinking I would remember in the morning.
I have to beat myself in the head. I . Will. Not. Remember….Must. Write. Down.
It’s hard to wake up. And that’s the only thing worth remembering. It’s hard to wake up.
“I have always believed that technology should do the hard work — discovery, organization, communication — so users can do what makes them happiest: living and loving, not messing with annoying computers! That means making our products work together seamlessly.”
This is a deep question — who are you? If you have a mechanical hand, is that “you”?
Conversely, if you lose a hand, did you lose a part of you. Are you no longer a complete person? The complete you?
If an implant is put into your brain to access Google, does that effect who you view your self to be?
When books were invented, memory suffered. We no longer had to remember as much, because we can look things up.
Does that make our brains less human?
I bet memory has suffered with the rise of Google. Does this mean our consciousness has suffered?
When we created fire, we outsourced part of our digestion to this new invention. Did this make our stomachs less human?
With technology taking care of the basic tasks of our brain and body, it allows us to achieve things we couldn’t previously dream possible.
It allows us to learn and explore and to create past the current comfort zone. It allows us to find the happiness, freedom, and well-being we deserve.
“Over time, our emerging high-usage products will likely generate significant new revenue streams for Google as well as for our partners, just as search does today.“
This is it. This is why Larry Page has re-oriented Google into Alphabet.
Don’t waste your most productive energies solving a problem that now only has incremental improvements.
Re-focus the best energies on solving harder and harder problems.
Always keeping the value of “how can I help a billion people” will keep Google from becoming a Borders bookstore (which went out of business after outsourcing all of their sales to Amazon).
How does this apply to the personal?
Instead of being a cog in the machine for some corporation, come up with ways to automate greater abundance.
Always understand that coming up with multiple ways to help people is ultimately the way to create the biggest impact.
Impact then creates health, friendship, competence, abundance, and freedom.
Oh my god, this answer is too long. And believe it or not, I cut it in half.
If I can just wake up every day and remind myself of these quotes by Larry Page I know I will have a better life.
But this is also why he created Alphabet and put Google underneath it.
To save the world. To save me.
More From James
Latest Podcast: Ep 125: Rich Roll & Julie Piatt — Quit The NonsenseIs it possible to transform your life on the eve of your 40th birthday, and experience meaning, vitality, and purpose like you’ve never before imagined?
Latest Ask Altucher: Ep 332: Ask MollieJames delves into the mind of his 13-year-old daughter Mollie today.
Recommended Article: I Want To Be Like Google When I Grow UpDear Google, I sort of want to have sex with you. Or I want you to be my father. Or my best friend. I don’t know, I feel so nervous writing this letter.
For some reason, I've turned myself inside out and all my guts have spilled onto my blog. One day I'll run out of stuff but not yet.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Last week I was on my way to visit Medium’s headquarters in San Francisco to discuss a project that I’m working on, mainly focused around police brutality. Funnily enough (or not so), I ended up being over an hour late, because this happened.
I recorded the incident August 4th 2015 during the lunch hour. It involves a Black man who was taken down by police in the mid-Market area of San Francisco, between 7th and 8th streets. Though the takedown didn’t occur directly outside of the Twitter building on 9th street, I began to see outlines of the incident unfold from there; a limping Black figure, wearing black, increasingly cornered by a wall of blue. By the time I had crossed 8th street, I was pulling out my phone as fast as I could.
Witnesses said there had been a call about somebody waving sticks around. No one, at least no one that I stayed long enough after the filming, could say for sure where the call came from. One woman said that she heard someone say that one of the deli managers called. By the time I arrived where Joe Bland was (as we’ll call him), several officers had arrived on the scene, and forced this man to the ground, which is where this footage begins. And they held him down, much of the time half-naked, for at least half an hour on one of San Francisco’s busiest streets.
The sticks? They were his crutches. You can hear people in the background around say so much. From my vantage point on the shore of 8th street, I could see the man reluctantly hand over his crutches. The man, it turned out, only had one leg; the other was a prosthetic. It is often twisted and backwards in the video. And this was the crux of the heightened tension between the police and Joe Bland; they wanted his crutches and he did not want to give them away. “What are you doing this for?” he asked so many times. “These are my crutches. I use these to walk.” He repeats this throughout the footage. An officer can be seen at the 5 second time-mark stomping on the man’s prosthetic leg. In further efforts to subdue a man already on the ground with four people on top of him, they stood on his leg, held it, and twisted it around even after they had cuffed him and pinned him to the piss-stained concrete.
Even when restrained and clearly unable to walk, several officers continued to hold him down to the ground.
This version of the video is 11 minutes long (the incident actually went on way longer and I have roughly 30 minutes of footage) but here’s a brief summary of what you can see.
5 seconds in, you can see a cop literally stomp this man’s real leg and prosthetic leg.
At 10 seconds, the man-handling of his head begins.
At 22 seconds the man says, “What the fuck is you doing this to me?”
Around 1:35, the “Blue Wall” begins to form to block my filming.
Around 3:11, you can see that the man is partially nude, his ass is exposed. You can also hear me responding to the things that officers are saying to me, even if you can’t really hear them. Among the things they said: “You don’t live here,” “What do you do?” and “Oh, you’re a journalist, right, for who?”
Around 3:55, you can’t hear him, but the man on the ground says, “they’re going to shoot me” and then you can clearly hear someone behind me say, “They ain’t gonna shoot you man, that’s why we have these cameras out here.”
4:00 the wall begins to deepen and you can also see his nude backside completely exposed.
Around 6:00 he begins saying how much it hurts — “this shit hurts” and at 6:44, he says, “ That shit hurts…I have a fucking sore, an infection, on my leg.”
Around 7:00 the man begins asking, “What the fuck is wrong with you, is this what you do? [inaudible? something “treat me”?] Is this respectable? When I say ‘no’, is this what you do to me?”
At 7:25 he’s explaining to them, as he has before — and other people in the background have also corroborated — that he was walking with the sticks that were confiscated from him.
It goes on.
This isn’t a video of a man getting killed. Some might watch this and think in that general, indemnifying way, that this video is an exceptional case of an isolated case of poor policing. I’d have to disagree — and not respectfully — with you.
These incidents are so quotidian, so mundane, that they do not merit a mention in even passing on the local news. Which is to say, this is everyday harassment. Which is to say, that we’ve normalized and habitualized the kind of policing in San Francisco and the rest of America that brutalizes the most vulnerable people, which strips them of their human dignity, the agency to their bodies — to walk with crutches when physically disabled, to have this body unviolated — when in actuality, they are whom the police are especially supposed to be protecting.
In the book Between The World and Me, Ta-Nehisi Coates writes, “In America, it is traditional to destroy the Black body — it is heritage.” This is a literal and physical example of what he means by this. To say that this footage is exceptional or special is to be blind to Eric Garner’s death tape, to Walter Scott’s murder on video, it is to agree that John Crawford did not have the right to walk around Walmart with a toy gun in an open carry state. Yes, it’s racial profiling. Yes, it’s racism. Yes, it’s inequality. This is an American heritage.
But before you think that this is not San Francisco’s heritage, it would be better to first ask the Joe Blands, those that you may step over on any given day because you are busy, the BART is packed and they smell violently, what they think San Francisco’s heritage is, as it pertains to the police. Before you think that this is not San Francisco’s heritage, it is better to wonder why Black people, 7% of San Francisco’s population, are 7 times more likely to be arrested than White people. If you must believe that this video and the flood of others like it are exceptional instances of isolated brutality, then let us too believe that the stomping of vulnerable Black bodies and Black (prosthetic) limbs with pulverizing intent are what one means when they say, American exceptionalism.
I don’t know who Joe Bland is. I and others tried to get his name, but we could not make it out very well. Long after my meeting at Medium, watching the video by frames and discussing this with Bobbie Johnson about what to do next (who did a tremendous job in helping this come together and edit this), I was still at a loss for exactly what he’d done. But I do know that the police didn’t even put him under arrest: SFFD medics strapped him, against his will, to a stretcher and took him to hospital, for no apparent reason. I do know that he was humiliated, crying and deeply upset, but that and being physically handicapped are not enough reasons to be sent to the hospital. I do know that 14 officers to take down a presumably homeless man with one leg seems like a waste of resources and unreasonable.
The San Francisco Police Department is not new to controversy or to this American heritage. This year it’s been embroiled in a racist texting scandal, with officers caught sending messages calling African-Americans “monkeys” and encouraging the killing of “half breeds.” Earlier this year several officers and former officers were sentenced to jail for drug dealing, and pocketing money found during drug raids — some of which were unconstitutional. Just last week it came to light that the department has requested a mine-resistant armored vehicle, and recently the department was also subject to an investigation into faulty crime lab evidence —with as many as 1,400 criminal cases in the spotlight. A 2014 KQED review of police-involved shootings between 2005 and 2013 found that 58% of the people killed by the San Francisco Police Department were mentally ill. In an interview with the City Democratic Club in 2014, San Francisco’s chief of police, Greg Suhr, reported that his men are becoming “more and more charming.”
Speaking of which, Greg Suhr earns $320,000 per year — more than any other police chief in America. He also makes more than the mayor of San Francisco and the governor of California — $285,000 and $174,000 respectively.
This happened in the heart of one of America’s most affluent cities, literally outside the headquarters of Twitter. One block away are the headquarters of Uber, which is on pace to be the fastest-growing company in history. There are dozens of technology companies and buzzy internet media businesses along this stretch of Market Street, worth many, many billions of dollars. And not to my knowledge, did any of their employees or representatives come out to look at what the police were doing. And if they did, none of them have since publicly wondered what and how to use the powers of innovation, access and capital to change the narrative of police brutality in San Francisco and America. Perhaps they did not know that Joe Bland had been brutalized. Perhaps they were looking from their lofts and skyscrapers, on their way to the coffee machines or the in-house catered lunch and did see, but they too have normalized this mundane, quotidian and brutal American heritage. Whatever the internal struggles were, no one came.
And what could they do? If you’re sitting in your office in the Tenderloin, or mid-Market, or downtown San Francisco, what can you really do?
You are not powerless. You are rich and empowered, despite how you feel after paying rent and the IRS. You have a voice, a vote, a say in how San Francisco polices itself, in how it treats people. Greg Suhr and his officers work for you, not the other way around. As such, the police act on the democratic will of the people and if the current policing does not fit your will, you can change that.
So here are three things you can do.
So. The Haiti-ians need to come to America.
The story you’ve been missing.
By JON WESTENBERG
You could make something right now. If you wanted to stop reading, grab a sheet of butcher’s paper and brainstorm ideas, you could probably come up with half a dozen ideas for apps, books or products. Ideas aren’t the hard part, after all — just ask Tom Haverford.
You could build a Wordpress site and start harassing your friends to test the concept. You could start writing op-ed pieces on Medium and put “Founder” or “Author” in your Twitter bio within 48 hours. You could throw up a landing page, post the first chapter of a book and start pushing it on Product Hunt.
Where things get tough is when you’re trying to make something that people genuinely give a shit about. You don’t want your dream to die in the chamber, because nobody read it, watched it, used it or listened to it. The deafening silence surrounding your work can crush your soul.

If you want to make something that people really care about, that they actually give a hot shit about, you have to care about it yourself. Because if you don’t, then try as you might, it’ll come out in the final product.
The reason for this?
The only way you’ll be able to consistently work, when you don’t want to work, consistently try when you don’t want to try, is by deeply and honestly caring about your work.

The best writing advice I have ever heard was to write specifically for someone I know. It’s a genius idea. Every time I go to create something, or build something I think about who I know that would benefit from what I’m doing.
If you have something that you care enough about to make, you have to ask the next question — who are you making it for? What information do they need? What turn of phrase would stop them in their tracks? What is their single pain point that the product could solve, or their secret story that your novel would be able to touch and cultivate into a real emotional response?


You need to ask yourself whether you have the courage, the strength, the motivation and the passion to make what you want to make. And I mean really ask yourself, because when you first come up with an idea you can get so caught up in it that you can’t see anything else.
When that feeling starts to die down, or you get used to it, you can realise that you don’t have the real raw power to be able to finish and follow through. That’s not a bad thing; there is nothing wrong with recognising that a project isn’t right for you. Maybe there’s another project that is.
It’s not enough just to care about what you’re making — it has to feel right.

Have you ever watched one of those reality TV singing competitions? You’ve probably seen a hundred young people, eyes shining, clutching microphones and talking about their dreams. They’ll explain that ever since they were kids, they wanted to be singers.
They hardly ever say they wanted to sing. When it comes down to it, half the time it’s because actually singing isn’t the end goal. They want the trappings and lifestyle and the breaks of being a singer.
The same is true for anything you could make. Do you want to make X, or do you want to be the person who made X? Because if you don’t care about the act of making something, and if you don’t want to get out there every day and try to make something, you might as well quit.

If you want to write a book that can break someone’s heart — work hard.
If you want to start a business that changes the world — work hard.
If you want to draw a comic book that expresses everything you are, and dream about — work hard.


Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

Last Saturday, I read the 6,000-word New York Times piece, “Inside Amazon,” in the car on my way to the beach. I sat quietly in the front seat, glued to my phone while my husband flapped his hand gesturing for help with Google maps. My two-year-old danced to the sounds of Raffi in the back. When we got to the beach, we set up our spot, complete with dinosaur sand toys. My husband and daughter made a beeline for the water. I put on my Coolibar SPF 50 jacket to cover my skin from the sun. Then I sat down in my chair and wept.
Until July of 2014, I worked for Amazon. As a relatively successful young book editor, I’d been hired by the company in 2011 to help launch its New York City-based book publishing outpost created to commission original content by name writers. The media landscape was continuing to evolve; everyone was in everyone else’s lane. It was a big opportunity, one many people inside the publishing industry told me privately I would be crazy not to take. I was drawn to Amazon’s spirit of innovation, its agility, and its culture of excellence. I was about to start Columbia’s Executive MBA program when the offer came in. Why not, as the saying goes, “earn to learn,” I thought. I took the job.
I was dazzled by the people I met in different pockets of the company those first few months. They were all smart. They were all lightning-fast. And, I quickly noted, when it came to leadership positions, they were almost all men. “So, who’s our Sheryl Sandberg?” I asked a VP. He cited General Counsel Michelle Wilson, the sole woman on Jeff Bezos’s executive team. The next year, in 2012, Wilson left the company to take maternity leave. She never returned.
In 2013, during my second year at Amazon, I had a baby of my own. Six weeks after my daughter was born, I was diagnosed with cancer. I was given detailed instructions by my oncologist’s staff on how to “pump and dump” my breast milk for 24 hours to prevent my daughter from ingesting radioactive matter. There I was, soothing my infant, unsure of whether or not I would be around to see her first birthday.
After my surgery, while I was still on maternity leave, I received a form letter saying that the health insurance provided by my employer had been terminated. Dozens of panicked emails and phone calls later, the whole thing was, I was told, a glitch in the system. After a week of back and forth, I was offered COBRA coverage, by which point I had already switched to my husband’s insurance, where I remained for the duration of my care. I chalked it up to a horrendous administrative error but remain disappointed that a company of Amazon’s size didn’t have better mechanisms in place to prevent something like that from happening during an employee’s maternity leave.
After a five-month leave, I was nervous and excited to return to work, and I showed up that first day back with a big smile and a phone full of baby pictures to share. I figured I’d catch up with folks and get a high-level update on how the business was doing, since the strategy had evolved from the time I was hired. Here’s what happened instead: I was taken to lunch by a woman I barely knew. Over Cobb salad she calmly explained that all but one of my direct reports — the people I had hired — were now reporting to her. In the months that followed, I was placed on a dubious performance improvement plan, or PIP, a signal at Amazon that your employment is at risk. Not long after that I resigned.
The truth is, I’ve moved on. I’m healthy. I have a great job doing work I love. There’s no question Amazon is an incredible company. I met some of the strongest, most brilliant women of my career there. Unfortunately, many of those women have left. And the voices commenting on the New York Times piece so far have been predominantly male leaders of male-dominated teams.
Jeff: You asked for direct feedback. Women power your retail engine. They buy diapers. They buy books. They buy socks for their husbands on Prime. On behalf of all the people who want to speak up but can’t: Please, make Amazon a more hospitable place for women and parents. Reevaluate your parental leave policies. You can’t claim to be a data-driven company and not release more specific numbers on how many women and people of color apply, get hired and promoted, and stay on as employees. In the absence of meaningful public data — especially retention data — all we have are stories. This is mine.
Julia Cheiffetz is an Executive Editor at HarperCollins Publishers. She is on the Board of the Lower Eastside Girls Club.
The Fuckboy, in his current form, aims for the night, aims for the break, goals to ghost. The Softboy strings you along under loftier auspices. He is Nice yet Complicated; this isn’t just a hookup. It’s a series of such.
The Softboy did not talk to you at the party, but he’s adding you on Facebook while you’re on the train home. Soon, he wants to know if you’d “like to get drinks.”
“Or something.”
He discusses his ex-girlfriend within the first thirty minutes of the date. He talks about her in a sad, wistful way rather than a snarky, resentful way. The older Softboy will say, “Oh well, it’s in the past.” The younger Softboy will say, “So it goes.”
The Softboy may be named Tom. Or Phillip.
The Softboy wears a plain t-shirt or sweater and orders cheap beer backed with bottom-shelf whiskey. He is neither Bro nor Nerd. He is sensitive yet amusingly crass. He doesn’t want you to know he has feelings. He wants you to know that he has feelings and he is completely okay with that.
The Fuckboy is perplexed that you were upset when he forgot to text you for three days then sent “what are you up to” at last call. The Softboy knows this behavior is selfish and cruel, though his desire to get laid can trump this. He feels shame. He does it again.
He wants to know if you’re mad at him. He already knows.
The Softboy doesn’t want to talk to you about The Wire. He concedes that it is “objectively good television” yet “ultimately problematic” and “undeserving of its lionization.” Obviously, he is an Ally.
He has some art to show you.
The Softboy does not necessarily have a soft body. In fact he is often wiry and angular.
However: the heavier the Softboy, the thicker the beard.
He is emotionally intelligent but does nothing with this knowledge. He is artistic. He is aware. He is still a dick.
The Softboy sends you songs via Gchat while you’re at work.
He hasn’t texted you back for a reason; he was not blowing you off. He’s had a Weird Day. Or maybe he’s Trying To Figure Some Shit Out. Sometimes, he finds pride in declaring that he Just Needs A Night To Himself.
The Softboy is an Underdog. He has a hurricane sulk.
He resurfaces seconds before the final ember extinguishes.
The Softboy wields guilt like a floral knife.
Writer | California Son | alan-hanson.com

I’m a professional YouTube creator. Some people think that this is some kind of joke but I have 30 employees. All of them work in the online video industry, about half of them work directly on producing videos for our educational YouTube channels. We’re a small, profitable business.
Facebook is an interesting, emerging platform for us. Reaching an audience is valuable, even if there’s no way to turn that value into money. So I’m excited about the potential future of Facebook as a video platform.
But there are a few things that make me wary, not of their ability to grow my business, but of whether they give a shit about creators, which is actually pretty important to me. Let’s go through them one by one.
If I embed a YouTube video or Vine on Facebook, only a tiny fraction of my audience will actually see it. But if I post the same video natively on Facebook, suddenly it’s in everyone’s feed everywhere! This data is pretty easy to come by for us, and Facebook is happy to admit the strategy. A SciShow YouTube video embedded on Facebook will reach between 20,000 and 50,000 people and be viewed by hundreds of people. The same video uploaded natively will get a reach of between 60,000 and 150,000 and be “viewed” by tens of thousands (more on what those “views” actually mean later).
Sonja Foust of Duke University actually took the time to crunch some real numbers on this, and she was kind enough to allow me to share them with you:
So Facebook is pushing Facebook video. I guess that’s their prerogative (unless someone decides there’s an anti-trust argument to be made.) But as a creator, it seems like an abuse of their power.

In our analytics-obsessed world, it’s tempting to first ask how to measure whether something is a view, but if we take a step back and just ask what a “view” is, the answer becomes clearer. What is a view? It’s when someone watches the video. And Facebook counts views significantly before people could be said to be watching the video.
Facebook counts the “view” at the three second mark (whether or not the viewer has even turned on the sound) in the midst of a precipitous decline in retention. At that moment, 90% of people scrolling the page are still ‘watching’ this silent animated GIF. But by 30 seconds, when viewership actually could be claimed, only 20% are watching. 90% of people are being counted, but only 20% of people are actually “viewing” the video.
YouTube, on the other hand, counts views in a logical way…the view is counted at the point at which people seem to actually be engaging with the video and not just immediately clicking away. This is usually around 30 seconds, but of course is different for videos of different lengths.
This might seem a little like this is a victimless crime, but it fundamentally devalues the #1 metric of online video. The view is the thing that everyone talks about and it’s the thing creators sell to advertisers in order to make a living. Applying that word to something far less valuable is going to be extremely disruptive to creators. Ad agencies and brands are confused enough without Facebook muddying the waters by calling something a view when it is in no way a measure of viewership.
When Facebook says it has roughly the same number of views as YouTube, what they really mean is that they have roughly 1/5th of YouTube’s views, since they’re intentionally and blatantly over-counting to the detriment of everyone except them.

According to a recent report from Ogilvy and Tubular Labs, of the 1000 most popular Facebook videos of Q1 2015, 725 were stolen re-uploads. Just these 725 “freebooted” videos were responsible for around 17 BILLION views last quarter. This is not insignificant, it’s the vast majority of Facebook’s high volume traffic. And no wonder, when embedding a YouTube video on your company’s Facebook page is a sure way to see it die a sudden death, we shouldn’t be surprised when they rip it off YouTube and upload it natively. Facebook’s algorithms encourage this theft.
What is Facebook doing about it?
They’ll take the video down a couple days after you let them know. Y’know, once it’s received 99.9% of the views it will ever receive.
Creators have been yelling (apparently into a void) about this for over a year now. Fullscreen CEO George Strompolos shared his thoughts on Twitter last month:
And then he was joined by the Fine Brothers, who run one of the largest channels on YouTube
Destin Sandlin, who runs the “Smarter Every Day” channel released a video on the topic after a video of his was ripped and re-uploaded by a subsidiary of Bauer Media Group and received 17 million views on their Facebook page.
But most creators have responded, thus far, the same way as me. By shrugging our shoulders and saying “What am I gonna do about it…it’s Facebook, they’re massive.”
But that’s exactly what makes it so awful.
It’s no secret that YouTube was built, in part, on copyright infringement. Among the user generated content that drove traffic to YouTube in 2006 and 2007, there were plenty of Family Guy and Daily Show clips. But YouTube was a tiny start-up flying under the radar. As soon as it got big (and got bought) Google fixed this problem with “Content ID,” a system that analyzes every single video uploaded to YouTube and checks it against a massive database of known owned content.
It’s a little inexcusable that Facebook, a company with a market cap of $260 BILLION, launched their video platform with no system to protect independent rights holders. It wouldn’t be surprising if Facebook was working on a solution now which they can roll out conveniently after having made their initial claims at being the biggest, most important thing in video.
But even if they do have a system, it won’t function as well as Content ID. Content ID works so well largely because YouTube is good at monetizing content. So, instead of taking a video down, a copyright holder can claim the video and receive revenue from it. Content ID has claimed millions of videos and is responsible for over a billion dollars in revenue so copyright holders love it. But without a good system of monetization, Facebook can only remove videos, not send big checks to the owners of stolen content. For the copyright holder, interfacing with a profitless system is just a pain in the ass with no upside.
What to do? Well, the lack of searchability on Facebook makes it impossible for creators to discover when their content is being freebooted, so if you see suspect content, please reach out to the creator so they can take action. If you have any legal or technical solutions you think might work, please post those as responses to this. And above all, just know that this is an issue and share what you can with who you can. Facebook won’t hold itself accountable, but maybe they will if we make them.
Facebook is big enough that it shouldn’t need to resort to these tactics to build its video presence. It makes them look weak to be so excited about skyrocketing numbers if those numbers are based on cheating, lies, and theft.
Hank Green makes YouTube videos for a living on channels like SciShow, Crash Course, and Vlogbrothers. He also runs a merchandise company for internet creators (DFTBA Records), a conference for internet creators (VidCon), and his crowd-funding platform for internet creators (Subbable) was recently acquired by Patreon.
Internetainerpreneur
I think spatially, and so do you. Can you scratch your left ear without looking? Pick a booger out of your nose, without poking your brain? Remember where you left your keys? Can you type, without looking at your keyboard? Know which pocket your phone is in? Which way is up? Do you know where the bathroom is? Of course you do! We imagine multi-dimensional models in our minds, to help understand the complex world around us. We can also leverage this powerful way of thinking, to process more abstract information.
I believe the best software is an extension of the human brain. It lets us think naturally, and conforms to us, not the other way around. Translation of information should be the computer’s job, not ours. It’s what we built these digital slaves for. A great Spatial Interface meets our expectations of a physical model. Designed for human beings, it supports a mind, living in the dimensions of space and time. They are Interfaces that are sensible about where things lay. Like a well designed building, they’re easy to traverse through. One space flows into the other, without surprise.
To design a Spatial Interface, you need to think inside and outside the bounds of the screen. Think about the physicality of the objects in your interface. Where did they come from? Where will they go? How do they behave in respect to Kinetic influence? Do certain objects inherit physical properties of others? Where are you, relative to everything else?
These are hard questions to answer with words. Seems like a no-brainer, but I find it most effective to solve visual problems with pictures.
Diagrammatic Reasoning
When designing spatially, it helps to imagine an interface as a physical model, which can be manipulated, and travelled through. Rather than placing detached comps next to each other one-dimensionally, try thinking upper-dimensionally.
Here’s a breakdown of the Contextual Zooming paradigm that was key to creating Keezy Drummer.
You can visualize the relationships between dimensions as extrusions of lower dimensions. Each dimension creates a significantly more complex model to visualize.



We can design with time, by thinking about kinetic, Transitional Interfaces. Both Spatial & Temporal clues lead the eye around physical models.






Motion implies space. Movement re-enforces the physical characteristics of the spaces on and off the screen. Objects constrained using sensible, physical rules, help establish a clear model.


We’ve all seen this classic, list item deletion pattern. Swipe the cell, and it reveals a button behind it. Tap the icon, and the entire cell collapses.

What happens if we change the way the list item departs the screen?

If we cushion / ease the item exiting the screen, we suggest where it might stop. In this case, it stops a little short off screen. We might want to do this to imply a holding area, which could feed items back into the list. Maybe we could allow the user to swipe the viewport to the right hand side of the screen, revealing displaced list items.

If the item keeps accelerating, where does it end up? Out of reach? Are we banishing it into the void of outer space?

If the list item rotates and displaces along the x & y axis freely, does it come to rest off the grid? Is there gravity? Maybe it lands in a pile.



Z-translation implies depth.
The list item could flip over. It might fold in on itself like an accordion. Maybe it scrunches. The fill color could drain out of the cell like a liquid. I could go on with visual examples forever, but by now, I think you get the picture; one can encode quite a lot of meaning using motion and space.



Pretty conceptual, but Scorekeeper does a great job of creating focus. It isolates modes, rather than presenting the user with a bloated buffet of options to dig through. Complexity is hidden in secondary, and tertiary sub-interfaces. Each sub-interface is as simple as its parent.


Tinder famously employs a card paradigm. There’s an endless stack of cards which make use of z-depth. Toss a card from the stack to the right, for a babe you’re into, or throw them to the left to pass. Similarly, if you tap the heart or ‘x’ button, it automatically tosses the card to the respective side of screen, re-enforcing the function of space.
It’s a physical, kinetic model that’s familiar.


Secondary screens are placed along a horizontal continuum, which is reflected in the motion of the navigation, cascading to the content below. A great example of motion being leveraged to imply space.
I’m unsure if it’s intentional, but the interface for messaging your ‘matches’ happens to exist on the right hand side, within the same area you toss your Tinder crush card.



Tumblr’s model is simple. There’s a few contexts, connected with a tab bar. It’s easy to visualize if you imagine the interface from the perspective of a camera. A persistent toolbar follows us, as if attached to the camera we’re looking through. Though you don’t see explicit motion along the x-axis as we change contexts (as Tinder employs), there’s still a implicit feeling of space on either side of the columns.
None of this is groundbreaking.
What’s interesting is the use of the compose modal, triggered by touching the blue pencil icon. No matter where it’s touched, you are not transported to a new part of the interface, rather — you’re presented with a temporary offering, in a focused view. You have incredibly simple options: Either select a post type, or dismiss the menu. The view presents itself over the top of the content, as if it were a layer existing on a z-plane. Dismiss the view, and it returns to where it was summoned. Choose to make an action on it, you continue to move along the y-axis with the icons, implying a continuum. It’s like a conveyor belt on a production line.
My one gripe in Tumblr’s process, is that the metadata composer is presented with the insertion of a classic, master-detail view. If I were to push the interface further, I’d continue to present the next screen with y-axis motion, rather than introducing the extra x-dimension. This reduces the cognitive load required to imagine the spatial model.


A classic lightbox effect, but with a little more. Tap the photo, and it moves into the ‘foreground’. The background feed dims and recedes. Flick the photo away, and it returns back to its initial position, while the original container view zooms back into focus. It’s solid.



There’s a lot to learn, by deconstructing these expensive Frankensteins.

One of the most spatially confusing, while popular pieces of consumer software. To describe how Spotify’s interface makes use of space, would be to describe a rat’s nest of wires. I challenge you to effectively sketch it on a piece of paper.

A user of Spotify is exposed to obscure carousels, buried inside modals, stuffed inside list views, crammed into drawers, contained by drop-downs, tucked behind gestures. Each list item in the hamburger menu forces the user through a wild goose chase in order to perform a simple action. It’s like you have to play a choose your own adventure story to get anything done.

While it may seem baffling that a team of talented engineers & designers could produce such a monstrosity, it’s unsurprising when you take a look at the software development values of Spotify. A holistic approach to creating software is thrown out the window, in favor of ungrounded company memes.

…but to be fair, the rest of the competition in the music space doesn’t seem to get it either. Apple Music & Rdio’s interfaces are equally insufferable. There’s little, to no thought given to Space.

Praised for its use of spring physics, and wild animations, it seems remarkable on the surface. The Paper team made some cool tech, and even open sourced it. It’s fun to fling around. It ends there. Paper is a children’s interactive playbook for an iPad, rebranded and then crammed into a tiny iPhone. Ok, well it’s Push Pop Press shoehorned into Facebook.

There’s momentum scroll areas for days. Springs on springs on springs on springs. Cards that unfold like a shiny newspaper? You can pinch everything. The loudest hamburger menu in the world. Everything is simulated and moves for the sake of flair. It’s unnecessary kinetic toil. It’s fatiguing to traverse the amount of physical space described in the interface, let alone keep a model in the mind to remember where you are.
It’s a great example of going too far.

This one’s so obvious, I’m presenting it without any further comment.

How do we avoid the Rat’s Nest? We need to zoom out, and quite literally. Like I mentioned earlier, it helps immensely to think in terms of diagrammatic reasoning. Simple directions on the map result in a less chaotic journey through space.
Some tips:




I hope what I’ve penned down has encouraged you to think more Spatially. Go play some video games, and study the interfaces. Go outside. Observe the physicality of reality and your expectations of it. It’s in the DNA of the creations I’m inspired by, and the type of work I strive to produce.
I’ll be talking about this topic at Push Conference in Munich later this year. Feel free to email me: medium@pasquale.cool, or write to me on twitter @pasql
✌🏻

Special thanks:
Jake Lodwick, Eric Skogen, Mark Stultz, & Sebastiaan de With
Creative Director & Co-Founder of Keezy. http://pasquale.cool/
From the boys at Elepath Inc. http://elepath.com

Edit: At Facebook’s request I have again deactivated the *official* version of the extension. Furthermore, Facebook has deactivated location sharing from the desktop webpage so the extension will not work.
When I came to college Facebook Messenger became an integral part of my digital life. I quickly found that it was the easiest way to keep in touch with old high school friends, contact people I had just met, organize impromptu poker games with people I hardly knew, and everything in between. However, I didn't realize how much data about me Messenger was revealing to the people I chatted with until last week when I began tinkering with my message history.
As you may know, when you send a message from the Messenger app there is an option to send your location with it. What I realized was that almost every other message in my chats had a location attached to it, so I decided to have some fun with this data. I wrote a Chrome extension for the Facebook Messenger page (https://www.facebook.com/messages/) that scrapes all this location data and plots it on a map. You can get this extension here and play around with it on your message data.

You may not believe that there are enough of these location tagged messages to provide truly invasive data on any one person, since they must be on mobile, with GPS on, and choose to share their location for it to be sent… right?
What you should keep in mind is that the mobile app for Facebook Messenger defaults to sending a location with all messages.
Go ahead and see how many messages in your chats have locations attached. I’m guessing it’s a lot of them. And if this isn't already starting to get a bit weird, the first thing I noticed when I started to write my code was that the latitude and longitude coordinates of the message locations have more than 5 decimal places of precision, making it possible to pinpoint the sender’s location to less than a meter.
Once the extension was written I naturally started seeing what kind of things I could discover about my Facebook friends.
I am in a pretty active group chat with some of my brother’s friends (who I am friends with on Facebook but don’t know too well). They are all fairly active on the chat, posting once a day or more.
Let’s pick on the one who goes to Stanford. By simply looking at the cluster of messages sent late at night you can tell exactly where his dorm is, and in fact approximately where his room is located in that dorm.
Furthermore, by gathering a couple weeks’ worth of chat data on the map and looking at the location clusters you can even figure out his weekly schedule. With this you can predict exactly which building he would be in at a given time.
In fact I found that I could infer a schedule for almost everyone in this chat as well as the other active chats I am in.
I found that I could even do this for people who I am not Facebook friends with. I am currently in a large active chat to organize poker games with some fellow students, many of whom I am not Facebook friends with. However, I can still track their locations extremely accurately from the messages they send the group.
You can now see the fun (and slightly creepy) things this data allows you to do. But wait there's more! One day when I was chatting frequently with a friend of mine (@tomasreimers) the map allowed me to track his hour by hour locations. At the end of that day the location history on the map closely matched the location history collected by his phone.
Additionally, this map aggregates the location data from all the messages that I send. For the days I was frequently on messenger (posting to different conversations every hour or so), my location history on this map lined up very closely with my phone’s location history.
This means that if a few people who I am chatting with separately collude and send each other the locations I share with them, they would be able to track me very accurately without me ever knowing.
If you want to map your friends’ locations to see for yourself how fun (and creepy) this data is you can download the extension for Chrome here. The code is also available and open source on Github.
For those of you already wanting out here is a great guide on how to ensure you don’t send your locations from the Messenger app.

Let me reiterate that I still find Facebook Messenger extremely useful and use it religiously, albeit with location sharing now turned off. This may lead you to wonder if there really is a problem here, since there is always option to not share your exact coordinates with messages. However, everyone I have shown this extension to has been anywhere from surprised to appalled that this much of their very personal data is online for their friends (and even complete strangers) to access. So it is seems that there is an issue.
Let’s start at the root of the problem: why do so many people give up their location data so readily on Messenger?
The main problem is that every time you open your phone and send a single message it’s so easy to forget about your location data being attached to it. Furthermore, it seems so harmless to attach a location with a single message, but the problem is over time the information from these messages adds up.
Both of these issues in some way stem from the fact that locations are not only included by default, but also are rather subtly placed in the UI. The power of defaults on human behavior is well documented in psychology and suggests that few people will put in the effort to deviate from the default action of sharing. Furthermore, because there are no readily visible consequences to sharing your location, users are never incentivized to devote attention to what this default of sharing is actually revealing about them.
I decided to write this extension, because we are constantly being told how we are losing privacy with the increasing digitization of our lives, however the consequences never seem tangible. With this code you can see for yourself the potentially invasive usage of the information you share, and decide for yourself if this is something you should worry about.
Student at Harvard College in Computer Science and Mathematics. Find me at arankhanna.com
Open minded reading
The web is increasingly becoming a powerful resource that can easily help you learn something new everyday. These awesome sites are just what you need.

There is a good chance you’ll be able to put at least one of these learning tools to good use and come out as a better person than you were last year. These are some of the best websites that will make you smarter every day.
2. 99U (YouTube) — Actionable insights on productivity, organization, and leadership to help creative people push ideas forward.
3. Youtube EDU — The education videos that don’t have cute cats in boxes — but they do unlock knowledge.
4. WikiWand — A slick new interface for Wikipedia.
5. The long read (The Guardian) — In-depth reporting, essays and profiles.
6. TED — Great videos to open your mind on almost every topic.
7. iTunes U — Learning on the go, from some of the world’s top universities.
8. InsightfulQuestions (subreddit) — Intellectual discussions that are not necessarily genre-specific.
9. Cerego — Cerego helps you build personalized study plans based on your strengths and weaknesses to retain knowledge.
10. University of the People — Tuition-free online university that offers higher education in multiple course streams.
11. OpenSesame — Marketplace for online training, now with 22,000+ courses.
12. CreativeLive — Take free creative classes from the world’s top experts.
13. Coursera — Partnering with some of the top U.S. universities, Coursera offers massive open online courses for free.
14. University of reddit — the product of free intellectualism and is a haven for the sharing of knowledge.
15. Quora — You ask, the net discusses — with top experts and fascinating back and forth on everything.
16. Digital Photography School — Read through this goldmine of articles to improve your photography skills.
17. Umano -Explore the largest collection of audio articles powered by real people. Dropbox has acquired Umano. Brain Pickings is a great replacement for 17.
Brain Pickings — Insightful long form posts on life, art, science, design, history, philosophy, and more.
18. Peer 2 Peer University or P2PU, is an open educational project that helps you learn at your own pace.
19. MIT Open CourseWare is a catalog of free online courses and learning resources offered by MIT.
20. Gibbon — This is the ultimate playlist for learning.
21. Investopedia — Learn everything you need to know about the world of investing, markets, and personal finance.
22. Udacity offers interactive online classes and courses in higher education.
23. Mozilla Developer Network offers detailed documentation and learning resources for web developers.
24. Future learn — enjoy free online courses from top universities and specialist organisations.
25. Google Scholar — provides a search of scholarly literature across many disciplines and sources, including theses, books, abstracts and articles.
26. Brain Pump — A place to learn something new everyday.
27. Mental Floss — Test your knowledge with amazing and interesting facts, trivia, quizzes, and brain teaser games.
28. Learnist — Learn from expertly curated web, print and video content.
29. DataCamp — Online R tutorials and data science courses.
30. edX — Take online courses from the world’s best universities.
31. Highbrow — Get bite-sized daily courses to your inbox.
32. Coursmos — Take a micro-course anytime you want, on any device.
33. Platzi — Live streaming classes on design, marketing and code.

“What could be more important to a learner than proficiency in good thinking?” Peter Worley
The author is the founder at Alltopstartups (where he shares startup resources) and Postanly (a free weekly newsletter that delivers the best, most popular and long form posts from top publishers around the web). Follow him on Twitter @Alltopstartups.
Entrepreneur. Blogger. Author. Founder at Alltopstartups.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

Life is exhausting. No joke.
All we do is work. Or think of work. Or talk about work.
Work, work, work.
It wears on us after awhile. We get burned out. Some of us develop unhealthy addictions (like watching endless reruns of Friends). We even get sick.
Want to know what the best remedy I’ve found to battle burnout?
(One of my favorite artists has this tattooed on his arm.)
The reason we burn out isn’t because of this thing called ‘activity’.
Life is action. Movement.
Stillness is an illusion.
We see the proof in nature itself…
The glassy pond, under a microscope, is anything but still.
Even as we sleep, our hearts beat, our hair grows, and our brain zooms full-speed ahead.
Life never complains. It just goes and goes because that’s its nature.
The problem we have is alignment. Things go awry when we get out of alignment with what we’re doing. This is how things die.
Whether we’re just-not-that-into-it or we outright hate it, our intentions are somewhere else while our bodies, brains, and egos are trudging along with a slowly dying battery.
So we do things out of obligation. We feel coerced. Like we have no say in the matter.
We just go through the motions. There’s no soul behind it. No presence.
No wonder we’re burned out.
Want to turn the ship around?
Get into it.
Start doing as much as you can — even the smallest things like washing dishes, mowing the lawn, or doodling — with your full intent behind it. Like it’s the most mindful, enjoyable thing you’ve ever done.
Move through your day with purpose. With direction.
Soon, things will shift. You’ll start happening onto life so it can happen back. You’ll feel alive again (and will probably sleep better too).

Life is a ping-pong game. You’re serving. Until you move, it’s just gonna stand there and look at you.
You gonna bring the heat or not?
Heretic. Spiritual consigliere. Consciousness alignment specialist and sherpa. | About: http://bit.ly/1zgSK21 | Subscribe: http://bit.ly/1ULQlbK.
Short daily essays by Jonas Ellison about good, clean creative living and thoughts of a higher nature. | Subscribe via email: http://bit.ly/1ULQlbK.



Woah.
Cosmopolitan covers started out with women dressed conservatively. Then they started showing some skin. Then more skin. Finally, they started posing in sexy positions.
As women have earned more rights throughout the years, they’ve also earned the right to wear whatever they damn well please. Or maybe that just sells more magazines?


No bikini-clad teens here. It’s still pretty wholesome.
The Seventeen logo has stayed the same, but almost everything else about the design has changed. There was a time when the cover was delightfully simple. Then things just got more and more cluttered.
The magazine cover’s job is to sell the magazine — it has to stand out in a rack full of other magazines. So the design starts to get louder and louder.
When doing research for this article, I kept getting headaches whenever I looked at Seventeen covers for too long. Google image search “Seventeen Magazine” and you’ll see what I mean:
Ow. My eyes.


These are our new role models.
Ah, the Kardashians. Whether you love them, or love to hate them — there’s no disputing they’re wicked talented at monetizing their fame.
Vogue has had some gorgeous covers throughout the years. Like every other magazine, they’ve added more text on their covers to lure the readers in. But unlike Seventeen, they’ve done a good job of keeping the design classy and uncluttered.
For a more scientific look, check out Robots Reading Vogue, which compiled visual averages for all of the past covers of Vogue. (Thanks to Redditor othfilms for the find).


A walk down history, as seen through Time covers:
Time has done a great job branding its recognizable red border. The design has remained mostly consistent — except for a brief logo change in the 70's and 80's, which they quickly realized was a bad idea.
Time continues to feature America’s icons year after year — from presidents to pop stars. Who will be our icons in the next 100 years?

It surprised me that National Geographic’s covers were so text-heavy for most of its existence. This is a magazine that is perhaps best known for its beautiful full-bleed photography — yet they didn’t adopt this style until the 1960's. In contrast, magazines like Vogue and Cosmopolitan were were way ahead of the curve, featuring full-page illustrations as early as the 1900s.
Like Time, National Geographic has done an excellent job of branding its recognizable yellow border.


“Hey, we can sell more magazines with women in bikinis instead!”
— GQ’s marketing strategy
For a long time, every cover of GQ was pretty much the same. A white man in a suit. It’s a wonder it took them until 1990 to figure out that they might be able to sell more magazines by putting women on the cover instead.
GQ has gotten racy, sure — but also delightfully creative.
Damn, girl! This isn’t your average topless photoshoot.
GQ actually got in quite a bit of trouble for depicting Amy Schumer sexually with Star Wars characters. They didn’t get permission from Disney (who undoubtedly wouldn’t have granted it), and many Star Wars fans found it offensive. But Amy Schumer loved it, and said she would do it again.
Remarkably, The New Yorker hasn’t changed one bit.
The cover on the right is a special 90th anniversary issue, a clever recreation of the very first New Yorker cover on the left.
Compare the covers from decade to decade:
Pick out any cover at random, and it isn’t immediately obvious what time period it belongs to. With everything else that’s changed around us, The New Yorker has been remarkably consistent.
Their logo has endured 90 years. They continue to charm us with their hand-drawn illustrations. And unlike every other magazine, they haven’t been pressured into adding a bunch of text on the cover.
All magazines experiment with their design and learn what sells. And most other magazines — Cosmopolitan, Seventeen, Vogue, Time, GQ — have pretty much converged to the same design: a photo of a person, usually an attractive female, prominently featuring her face and body — with text headlines designed to get you to want to read what’s inside. This is the formula that sells their magazines.
Survival of the fittest, capitalism edition.
But not The New Yorker. It takes discipline to zig when everyone else is zagging.
You do you, New Yorker.


What 100 years of progress looks like:
What makes Caitlyn’s cover special is not just the subject matter, but the style as well. Let’s compare Caitlyn Jenner’s cover with every other cover in 2015:
The other covers are littered with mounds of text. Not this issue.
Call me Caitlyn. Just three words.
They didn’t need to sell the other stories. This issue was all about her. Vanity Fair nailed it.
You go, Caitlyn!


Together, these magazine covers reveal a peek into our history. Sure, we’ve gotten more sexualized. More superficial. We read less. We have shorter attention spans.
But we’ve also gotten more open-minded. At each step along the way, society has pushed the limits of what’s considered acceptable.
Not so long ago, black people couldn’t vote. Though they still face significant discrimination, they are also now idolized on magazine covers. As women have earned more rights over the years, they now take control of their sexuality. And Vanity Fair’s most iconic cover this year is a woman who used to identify as a man.
We’ve come a long way in 100 years.


Notice any trends we missed? Add your analysis in the comments.



Karen makes viral videos and explainer videos for startups. Follow her on Medium, Facebook or Instagram.
Jerry is product design consultant in San Francisco. Check out his portfolio.


Feel free to quote and embed the pictures on your publication. Please credit and link back: Karen X. Cheng and Jerry Gabra. Magazine covers are copyright by their respective publications. Comparison images created by Karen X. Cheng and Jerry Gabra. If you have questions, email karenxcheng (at) gmail (dot) com
Thanks to Orion Hombrebueno for research help. Thanks to Adam Lee, Oliver Emberton, Ketan Anjaria, Sam Brewczynski, Lynn Tao, Brooks Hassig and Rachman Blake for helpful feedback on drafts of this article.
I make viral videos and explainer videos for startups. http://karenx.com
By Hossein DerakhshanIllustrations by Tim McDonagh
Seven months ago, I sat down at the small table in the kitchen of my 1960s apartment, nestled on the top floor of a building in a vibrant central neighbourhood of Tehran, and I did something I had done thousands of times previously. I opened my laptop and posted to my new blog. This, though, was the first time in six years. And it nearly broke my heart.
A few weeks earlier, I’d been abruptly pardoned and freed from Evin prison in northern Tehran. I had been expecting to spend most of my life in those cells: In November 2008, I’d been sentenced to nearly 20 years in jail, mostly for things I’d written on my blog.
But the moment, when it came, was unexpected. I smoked a cigarette in the kitchen with one of my fellow inmates, and came back to the room I shared with a dozen other men. We were sharing a cup of tea when the voice of the floor announcer — another prisoner — filled all the rooms and corridors. In his flat voice, he announced in Persian: “Dear fellow inmates, the bird of luck has once again sat on one fellow inmate’s shoulders. Mr. Hossein Derakhshan, as of this moment, you are free.”
That evening was the first time that I went out of those doors as a free man. Everything felt new: The chill autumn breeze, the traffic noise from a nearby bridge, the smell, the colors of the city I had lived in for most of my life.
Around me, I noticed a very different Tehran from the one I’d been used to. An influx of new, shamelessly luxurious condos had replaced the charming little houses I was familiar with. New roads, new highways, hordes of invasive SUVs. Large billboards with advertisements for Swiss-made watches and Korean flat screen TVs. Women in colorful scarves and manteaus, men with dyed hair and beards, and hundreds of charming cafes with hip western music and female staff. They were the kinds of changes that creep up on people; the kind you only really notice once normal life gets taken away from you.
Two weeks later, I began writing again. Some friends agreed to let me start a blog as part of their arts magazine. I called it Ketabkhan — it means book-reader in Persian.
Six years was a long time to be in jail, but it’s an entire era online. Writing on the internet itself had not changed, but reading — or, at least, getting things read — had altered dramatically. I’d been told how essential social networks had become while I’d been gone, and so I knew one thing: If I wanted to lure people to see my writing, I had to use social media now.
So I tried to post a link to one of my stories on Facebook. Turns out Facebook didn’t care much. It ended up looking like a boring classified ad. No description. No image. Nothing. It got three likes. Three! That was it.
It became clear to me, right there, that things had changed. I was not equipped to play on this new turf — all my investment and effort had burned up. I was devastated.
Blogs were gold and bloggers were rock stars back in 2008 when I was arrested. At that point, and despite the fact the state was blocking access to my blog from inside Iran, I had an audience of around 20,000 people every day. Everybody I linked to would face a sudden and serious jump in traffic: I could empower or embarrass anyone I wanted.
People used to carefully read my posts and leave lots of relevant comments, and even many of those who strongly disagreed with me still came to read. Other blogs linked to mine to discuss what I was saying. I felt like a king.
The iPhone was a little over a year old by then, but smartphones were still mostly used to make phone calls and send short messages, handle emails, and surf the web. There were no real apps, certainly not how we think of them today. There was no Instagram, no SnapChat, no Viber, no WhatsApp.
Instead, there was the web, and on the web, there were blogs: the best place to find alternative thoughts, news and analysis. They were my life.
It had all started with 9/11. I was in Toronto, and my father had just arrived from Tehran for a visit. We were having breakfast when the second plane hit the World Trade Center. I was puzzled and confused and, looking for insights and explanations, I came across blogs. Once I read a few, I thought: This is it, I should start one, and encourage all Iranians to start blogging as well. So, using Notepad on Windows, I started experimenting. Soon I ended up writing on hoder.com, using Blogger’s publishing platform before Google bought it.
Then, on November 5, 2001, I published a step-to-step guide on how to start a blog. That sparked something that was later called a blogging revolution: Soon, hundreds and thousands of Iranians made it one of the top 5 nations by the number of blogs, and I was proud to have a role in this unprecedented democratization of writing.
Those days, I used to keep a list of all blogs in Persian and, for a while, I was the first person any new blogger in Iran would contact, so they could get on the list. That’s why they called me “the blogfather” in my mid-twenties — it was a silly nickname, but at least it hinted at how much I cared.
Every morning, from my small apartment in downtown Toronto, I opened my computer and took care of the new blogs, helping them gain exposure and audience. It was a diverse crowd — from exiled authors and journalists, female diarists, and technology experts, to local journalists, politicians, clerics, and war veterans — and I always encouraged even more. I invited more religious, and pro-Islamic Republic men and women, people who lived inside Iran, to join and start writing.
The breadth of what was available those days amazed us all. It was partly why I promoted blogging so seriously. I’d left Iran in late 2000 to experience living in the West, and was scared that I was missing all the rapidly emerging trends at home. But reading Iranian blogs in Toronto was the closest experience I could have to sitting in a shared taxi in Tehran and listening to collective conversations between the talkative driver and random passengers.
There’s a story in the Quran that I thought about a lot during my first eight months in solitary confinement. In it, a group of persecuted Christians find refuge in a cave. They, and a dog they have with them, fall into a deep sleep. They wake up under the impression that they’ve taken a nap: In fact, it’s 300 years later. One version of the story tells of how one of them goes out to buy food — and I can only imagine how hungry they must’ve been after 300 years — and discovers that his money is obsolete now, a museum item. That’s when he realizes how long they have actually been absent.
The hyperlink was my currency six years ago. Stemming from the idea of the hypertext, the hyperlink provided a diversity and decentralisation that the real world lacked. The hyperlink represented the open, interconnected spirit of the world wide web — a vision that started with its inventor, Tim Berners-Lee. The hyperlink was a way to abandon centralization — all the links, lines and hierarchies — and replace them with something more distributed, a system of nodes and networks.
Blogs gave form to that spirit of decentralization: They were windows into lives you’d rarely know much about; bridges that connected different lives to each other and thereby changed them. Blogs were cafes where people exchanged diverse ideas on any and every topic you could possibly be interested in. They were Tehran’s taxicabs writ large.
Since I got out of jail, though, I’ve realized how much the hyperlink has been devalued, almost made obsolete.
Nearly every social network now treats a link as just the same as it treats any other object — the same as a photo, or a piece of text — instead of seeing it as a way to make that text richer. You’re encouraged to post one single hyperlink and expose it to a quasi-democratic process of liking and plussing and hearting: Adding several links to a piece of text is usually not allowed. Hyperlinks are objectivized, isolated, stripped of their powers.
At the same time, these social networks tend to treat native text and pictures — things that are directly posted to them — with a lot more respect than those that reside on outside web pages. One photographer friend explained to me how the images he uploads directly to Facebook receive a large number of likes, which in turn means they appear more on other people’s news feeds. On the other hand, when he posts a link to the same picture somewhere outside Facebook — his now-dusty blog, for instance — the images are much less visible to Facebook itself, and therefore get far fewer likes. The cycle reinforces itself.
Some networks, like Twitter, treat hyperlinks a little better. Others, insecure social services, are far more paranoid. Instagram — owned by Facebook — doesn’t allow its audiences to leave whatsoever. You can put up a web address alongside your photos, but it won’t go anywhere. Lots of people start their daily online routine in these cul de sacs of social media, and their journeys end there. Many don’t even realize that they’re using the Internet’s infrastructure when they like an Instagram photograph or leave a comment on a friend’s Facebook video. It’s just an app.
But hyperlinks aren’t just the skeleton of the web: They are its eyes, a path to its soul. And a blind webpage, one without hyperlinks, can’t look or gaze at another webpage — and this has serious consequences for the dynamics of power on the web.
More or less, all theorists have thought of gaze in relation to power, and mostly in a negative sense: the gazer strips the gazed and turns her into a powerless object, devoid of intelligence or agency. But in the world of webpages, gaze functions differently: It is more empowering. When a powerful website — say Google or Facebook — gazes at, or links to, another webpage, it doesn’t just connect it — it brings it into existence; gives it life. Metaphorically, without this empowering gaze, your web page doesn’t breathe. No matter how many links you have placed in a webpage, unless somebody is looking at it, it is actually both dead and blind; and therefore incapable of transferring power to any outside web page.
On the other hand, the most powerful web pages are those that have many eyes upon them. Just like celebrities who draw a kind of power from the millions of human eyes gazing at them any given time, web pages can capture and distribute their power through hyperlinks.
But apps like Instagram are blind — or almost blind. Their gaze goes nowhere except inwards, reluctant to transfer any of their vast powers to others, leading them into quiet deaths. The consequence is that web pages outside social media are dying.
Even before I went to jail, though, the power of hyperlinks was being curbed. Its biggest enemy was a philosophy that combined two of the most dominant, and most overrated, values of our times: novelty and popularity, reflected by the real world dominance of young celebrities. That philosophy is the Stream.
The Stream now dominates the way people receive information on the web. Fewer users are directly checking dedicated webpages, instead getting fed by a never-ending flow of information that’s picked for them by complex –and secretive — algorithms.
The Stream means you don’t need to open so many websites any more. You don’t need numerous tabs. You don’t even need a web browser. You open Twitter or Facebook on your smartphone and dive deep in. The mountain has come to you. Algorithms have picked everything for you. According to what you or your friends have read or seen before, they predict what you might like to see. It feels great not to waste time in finding interesting things on so many websites.
But are we missing something here? What are we exchanging for efficiency?
In many apps, the votes we cast — the likes, the plusses, the stars, the hearts — are actually more related to cute avatars and celebrity status than to the substance of what’s posted. A most brilliant paragraph by some ordinary-looking person can be left outside the Stream, while the silly ramblings of a celebrity gain instant Internet presence.
And not only do the algorithms behind the Stream equate newness and popularity with importance, they also tend to show us more of what we’ve already liked. These services carefully scan our behaviour and delicately tailor our news feeds with posts, pictures and videos that they think we would most likely want to see.
Popularity is not wrong in and of itself, but it has its own perils. In a free-market economy, low-quality goods with the wrong prices are doomed to failure. Nobody gets upset when a quiet Brooklyn cafe with bad lattes and rude servers goes out of business. But opinions are not the same as material goods or services. They won’t disappear if they are unpopular or even bad. In fact, history has proven that most big ideas (and many bad ones) have been quite unpopular for a long time, and their marginal status has only strengthened them. Minority views are radicalized when they can’t be expressed and recognized.
Today the Stream is digital media’s dominant form of organizing information. It’s in every social network and mobile application. Since I gained my freedom, everywhere I turn I see the Stream. I guess it won’t be too long before we see news websites organize their entire content based on the same principles. The prominence of the Stream today doesn’t just make vast chunks of the Internet biased against quality — it also means a deep betrayal to the diversity that the world wide web had originally envisioned.
There’s no question to me that the diversity of themes and opinions is less online today than it was in the past. New, different, and challenging ideas get suppressed by today’s social networks because their ranking strategies prioritize the popular and habitual. (No wonder why Apple is hiring human editors for its news app.) But diversity is being reduced in other ways, and for other purposes.
Some of it is visual. Yes, it is true that all my posts on Twitter and Facebook look something similar to a personal blog: They are collected in reverse-chronological order, on a specific webpage, with direct web addresses to each post. But I have very little control over how it looks like; I can’t personalize it much. My page must follow a uniform look which the designers of the social network decide for me.
The centralization of information also worries me because it makes it easier for things to disappear. After my arrest, my hosting service closed my account, because I wasn’t able to pay its monthly fee. But at least I had a backup of all my posts in a database on my own web server. (Most blogging platforms used to enable you to transfer your posts and archives to your own web space, whereas now most platforms don’t let you so.) Even if I didn’t, the Internet archive might keep a copy. But what if my account on Facebook or Twitter is shut down for any reason? Those services themselves may not die any time soon, but it would be not too difficult to imagine a day many American services shut down accounts of anyone who is from Iran, as a result of the current regime of sanctions. If that happened, I might be able to download my posts in some of them, and let’s assume the backup can be easily imported into another platform. But what about the unique web address for my social network profile? Would I be able to claim it back later, after somebody else has possessed it? Domain names switch hands, too, but managing the process is easier and more clear— especially since there is a financial relationship between you and the seller which makes it less prone to sudden and untransparent decisions.
But the scariest outcome of the centralization of information in the age of social networks is something else: It is making us all much less powerful in relation to governments and corporations.
Surveillance is increasingly imposed on civilized lives, and it just gets worse as time goes by. The only way to stay outside of this vast apparatus of surveillance might be to go into a cave and sleep, even if you can’t make it 300 years.
Being watched is something we all eventually have to get used to and live with and, sadly, it has nothing to do with the country of our residence. Ironically enough, states that cooperate with Facebook and Twitter know much more about their citizens than those, like Iran, where the state has a tight grip on the Internet but does not have legal access to social media companies.
What is more frightening than being merely watched, though, is being controlled. When Facebook can know us better than our parents with only 150 likes, and better than our spouses with 300 likes, the world appears quite predictable, both for governments and for businesses. And predictability means control.
Middle-class Iranians, like most people in the world, are obsessed with new trends. Utility or quality of things usually comes second to their trendiness. In early 2000s writing blogs made you cool and trendy, then around 2008 Facebook came in and then Twitter. Since 2014 the hype is all about Instagram, and no one knows what is next. But the more I think about these changes, the more I realize that even all my concerns might have been misdirected. Perhaps I am worried about the wrong thing. Maybe it’s not the death of the hyperlink, or the centralization, exactly.
Maybe it’s that text itself is disappearing. After all, the first visitors to the web spent their time online reading web magazines. Then came blogs, then Facebook, then Twitter. Now it’s Facebook videos and Instagram and SnapChat that most people spend their time on. There’s less and less text to read on social networks, and more and more video to watch, more and more images to look at. Are we witnessing a decline of reading on the web in favor of watching and listening?
Is this trend driven by people’s changing cultural habits, or is it that people are following the new laws of social networking? I don’t know — that’s for researchers to find out — but it feels like it’s reviving old cultural wars. After all, the web started out by imitating books and for many years, it was heavily dominated by text, by hypertext. Search engines put huge value on these things, and entire companies — entire monopolies — were built off the back of them. But as the number of image scanners and digital photos and video cameras grows exponentially, this seems to be changing. Search tools are starting to add advanced image recognition algorithms; advertising money is flowing there.
But the Stream, mobile applications, and moving images: They all show a departure from a books-internet toward a television-internet. We seem to have gone from a non-linear mode of communication — nodes and networks and links — toward a linear one, with centralization and hierarchies.
The web was not envisioned as a form of television when it was invented. But, like it or not, it is rapidly resembling TV: linear, passive, programmed and inward-looking.
When I log on to Facebook, my personal television starts. All I need to do is to scroll: New profile pictures by friends, short bits of opinion on current affairs, links to new stories with short captions, advertising, and of course self-playing videos. I occasionally click on like or share button, read peoples’ comments or leave one, or open an article. But I remain inside Facebook, and it continues to broadcast what I might like. This is not the web I knew when I went to jail. This is not the future of the web. This future is television.
Sometimes I think maybe I’m becoming too strict as I age. Maybe this is all a natural evolution of a technology. But I can’t close my eyes to what’s happening: A loss of intellectual power and diversity, and on the great potentials it could have for our troubled time. In the past, the web was powerful and serious enough to land me in jail. Today it feels like little more than entertainment. So much that even Iran doesn’t take some — Instagram, for instance — serious enough to block.
I miss when people took time to be exposed to different opinions, and bothered to read more than a paragraph or 140 characters. I miss the days when I could write something on my own blog, publish on my own domain, without taking an equal time to promote it on numerous social networks; when nobody cared about likes and reshares.
That’s the web I remember before jail. That’s the web we have to save.
Log in to Medium and “recommend” this story.Follow Matter on Twitter | Like us on Facebook
Iranian-Canadian author, blogger. Freed from Evin prison after 6 yrs, in Nov 2014. Trying to get back to normal life. hoder@hoder.com
The story you’ve been missing.
Millions of narcissistic little jerks, reared by an uncommonly hysterical generation who instilled in their children the adamantine conviction that they are exceptional and necessarily worthy of respect, enrolled this week as freshman in universities across the United States.
There was a moment when this exercise might have tested these students, made better and new through confrontation with the uncomfortable and occasionally outrageous thought.
Now, instead, they will pass the next four years of pseudo-scholarship as they have the eighteen that preceded them: swaddled in institutionalized political correctness and protected always from the unconventional or provocative.
At two- and four-year colleges and universities all across the nation, administrators have adopted stringent “speech codes” that restrict speech and behavior otherwise explicitly protected under the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.
The result isn’t simply an emotionally delicate dolt, but a broader culture at jeopardy of losing the most foundational of human rights. Today’s over-sensitivity to offense means these students may be entirely desensitized to the loss of speech tomorrow, even in the face of gross government encroachment.
These speech codes stretch from the ludicrous, like Jacksonville State University’s* policy that students not offend anyone, to the plainly unlawful.
While regarded by administrators as a sort of legal prophylactic — if no one is offended, no one can bring suit against the university, the argument goes — these policies have actually invited serious and sustained litigation by students and civil liberties advocates.
According to a national policy review of more than 400 institutions of higher learning by the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE), a not-for-profit educational foundation, more than half of those schools with speech codes would not survive judicial review.
In the case of FIRE, some 36 schools have abandoned or severely restrained their speech codes after the group brought suit on behalf of aggrieved students and faculty whose right to lawful speech were infringed.
They’ve won, repeatedly, because the privilege not to be offended is no right at all. Moreover, intellectual discomfort is a necessary tool in emotional and scholastic development — and restrictive speech codes actively retard the process.
I should know: it wasn’t so long ago that I advanced from a parochial secondary school, wherein students were taught that man and dinosaur had once coexisted before a great flood washed the earth clean, to a monstrous state university where students learned genuine science.
This science was accepted, corroborated, quantifiable, and yet also deeply offensive to a child whose narrow appreciation for the world around him was fixed in young earth Creationism.
But my offense led to introspection, and in turn growth.
The new climate of institutionalized over-sensitivity that today plagues academia — the accepted belief that one has the right to never be offended — is so acute that dissent of any sort is not allowed. These policies require either conformity or silence, and they result in a dangerous chilling of the free exchange of ideas.
Millennials, the obnoxious selfie-snapping age cohort into which I was cursed to fall, are truly horrible enough without your help, academia. KTHXBAI.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely the author’s and do not necessarily reflect the views of his employer or clients.
*Ed. note: This article incorrectly attributed the speech code policy of Jacksonville State University to another university and has since been amended.
[Autonomous is a free digital magazine. But you can donate to the mission, and receive a variety of added benefits (including extra content), by visiting our Patreon page.]
A one-time flack for: @JonHuntsman, @HaleyBarbour, @RNC, @CRNC. Also, a yoga teacher.
A new look at American culture today, and where we’re headed — specifically, where culture intersects with politics, media, technology, morality and political correctness.

Countless books and articles have been written about Warren Buffett. Surprisingly few have been written about his business partner of over 40 years, Charlie Munger.
Munger has stayed out of the public eye, giving only a small number of public talks, and he’s rarely been covered in the media. At Berkshire Hathaway’s annual shareholder’s meetings, he lets Buffett answer the questions, often times commenting, “I have nothing to add.”
Recently, I decided to learn more about Munger’s 70-year career, and I’ve been blown away. His model for success, backed by research, is simple and game-changing. It flies in the face of conventional wisdom on career success.
Beyond The 10,000 Hour Rule
A great deal has been written about how deliberate practice over 10,000 hours within a specific area of expertise is the key to success.
While Munger has certainly worked long and hard to become one of the world’s top investors, the signature of his success is different. According to his own account, rather than focusing on investment theory like a laser, he has studied widely and deeply in many fields, including microeconomics, psychology, law, mathematics, biology, and engineering, and applied insights from them to investing.
Bill Gates has said of Munger, “He is truly the broadest thinker I have ever encountered. From business principles to economic principles to the design of student dormitories to the design of a catamaran he has no equal… Our longest correspondence was a detailed discussion on the mating habits of naked mole rats and what the human species might learn from them.” Munger has, in short, been the ultimate expert-generalist.
The Rise Of The Expert-Generalist
The rival argument to the 10,000 hour rule is the expert-generalist approach. Orit Gadiesh, chairman of Bain & Co, who coined the term, describes the expert-generalist as:
“Someone who has the ability and curiosity to master and collect expertise in many different disciplines, industries, skills, capabilities, countries, and topics., etc. He or she can then, without necessarily even realizing it, but often by design:
The concept is commonly represented by this model of the “T-shaped individual”:
While the 10,000 hour rule works well in areas with defined rules that don’t change such as sports, music, and games, the rules of business constantly and fundamentally change. Being an expert-generalist allows individuals to quickly adapt to change. Research shows that they:
Charlie Munger’s Approach To Being An Expert-Generalist
In connecting the dots across the disciplines, Munger has developed a set of what he calls models, which he uses to assess investment opportunities. In fact, he’s identified over 100 of these models that he uses frequently as of the publication of Poor Charlie’s Almanack. No doubt he continues to develop and perfect them.
What are these models exactly?
The best way to explain is to take the case of one he uses constantly, which he calls Two-Track analysis. It combines insights from psychology, neuroscience and economics about the nature of human behavior. This model instructs that when analyzing any situation in which decision-making by people is involved, which of course covers every business situation, he must consider two tracks:
Another example is classical conditioning developed by Ivan Pavlov in the early 20th century. Pavlov discovered that with the right conditioning, dogs would salivate not just when eating food, but also in anticipation of it when he walked into the laboratory. Munger applies the same logic to business. In his book, he gives the example of how Coca-Cola (one of Berkshire Hathaway’s largest holdings) conditions its customers with the right frequency and type of advertising while using their logo as the trigger.
The following is a summary of his rules on being an expert-generalist in his own words, excerpted and condensed from the various talks he’s given:
Rule #1: Learn Multiple Models
“The first rule is that you’ve got to have multiple models — because if you just have one or two that you’re using, the nature of human psychology is such that you’ll torture reality so that it fits your models.”
“It’s like the old saying, ‘To the man with only a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.’ But that’s a perfectly disastrous way to think and a perfectly disastrous way to operate in the world.”
Rule #2: Learn Multiple Models From Multiple Disciplines
“And the models have to come from multiple disciplines — because all the wisdom of the world is not to be found in one little academic department.”
Rule #3: Focus On Big Ideas From The Big Disciplines (20% Of Models Create 80% Of The Results)
“You may say, ‘My God, this is already getting way too tough.’ But, fortunately, it isn’t that tough — because 80 or 90 important models will carry about 90% of the freight in making you a worldly-wise person. And, of those, only a mere handful really carry very heavy freight.”
Rule #4: Use A Checklist To Ensure You’re Factoring in the Right Models
“Use a checklist to be sure you get all of the main models.”
“How can smart people be wrong? Well, the answer is that they don’t…take all the main models from psychology and use them as a checklist in reviewing outcomes in complex systems.”
Rule #5: Create Multiple Checklists And Use The Right One For The Situation
“You need a different checklist and different mental models for different companies. I can never make it easy by saying, ‘Here are three things.’ You have to drive it yourself to ingrain it in your head for the rest of your life.”
The Expert-Generalist Approach In Different Fields
Whether or not you decide to follow Munger’s particular approach, one clear takeaway is the value of gaining a wide breadth of knowledge while also drilling deeply into your area of specialty.
Many of the top scientists, business leaders, inventors and artists throughout time have also achieved their breakthrough successes by being an expert-generalist. Albert Einstein was trained in physics, but to formulate his law of general relativity, he taught himself an area of mathematics far removed from his expertise, Riemannian geometry. James Watson and Francis Crick combined discoveries in X-ray diffraction technology, chemistry, evolutionary theory and computation to solve the puzzle of the double helix. Steve Jobs, of course, drew on insights from his study of calligraphy and a rich understanding of design to create a new breed of computing devices.
Here is an infographic with 25 of the top expert-generalists throughout history:
Bain & Company chairman, Orit Gadiesh, attests to the value of being a voracious reader across many domains in her own career, saying:
What’s more, those who can bridge the gaps between silos are becoming more valuable than ever as the amount of knowledge in the world and its fragmentation continue to accelerate.
Being An Expert-Generalist Will Become More And More Valued
The discipline known as scientometrics is the science of science; it studies the evolution of scientific knowledge. Two of the key findings of this field are:
As disciplines emerge and mature, they develop their own cultures and languages. Each has its own terminology along with its own journals and annual conferences. This specialization has already become so extreme that those who are specialists in one subfield of a discipline often know little to nothing about the work going on in other subfields.
Consider the increasing specialization that has led to one important new area of science, epigenetics. Epigenetics is essentially the study of how environmental factors affect how our genes are expressed. When biology emerged as a field of its own out of medicine and natural history in the 19th century, it would have been possible for any biologist to gain a good grasp of the whole field. Today, many geneticists would tell you they don’t have any real understanding of the findings in epigenetics.
Given this state of affairs, many professionals have determined the best approached is to go into sub, sub, sub specialties, where they can hope to become one of the best if they follow the 10,000 rule. That can indeed be fruitful. But opportunities also abound for those who instead develop an aptitude for building connections across disciplines.
Expert-generalists face far less competition. The more fields you can pull from, the fewer people you’ll find taking the same approach. When it comes to drilling into one domain,the competition is generally fierce. Narrowly specializingalso leaves you vulnerable to the ever-more daunting forces of change. Orit Gadiesh offers insight in this regard:
“As technology, globalization, geopolitical challenges, and competition accelerate the disruption of business, people are confronted with challenges, customs, and issues they have never experienced before. I find that experts — someone with deep knowledge limited to just one area — often lack the flexibility needed to adapt to change and can be easily flustered or, worse, be completely derailed.”
Curiouser and Curiouser
The business world has placed great emphasis on focus, and rightly so. It is a vital ingredient of success. But more emphasis must now be placed on curiosity. Too often, we are so pressed by the day-to-day demands of work that we aren’t making time for exploration, diving into areas entirely outside our range of experience, letting our minds run, and finding inspiration from encountering new ideas with uncertain payoffs.
So, when you find yourself pushing back, the inner voice of work overload screaming that you don’t have time to be reading that book you just picked up about the physics of time travel or the novel someone recommended by the Nigerian Nobel Prize winner, remember this: Bill Gates recalls that the longest correspondence he’s had with Charlie Munger wasn’t about an investment, it was about the mating habits.
* * * * *
As a resource for this article, I put together a 27-page report you can download at no cost. It summarizes the psychological biases that Munger has identified throughout his 70-year career. I put it together because I didn’t see another summary anywhere else that was easy to comprehend or apply.
* * * * *
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Flossing. 30 minutes of daily physical activity. Morning meditation.
Yuck. Blah. Shit.
As someone who rarely succeeds in forming a new habit, I’m both proud and confounded to say I’ve somehow managed to start a daily ritual and keep up with it for the past eight months.
That ritual is called Morning Pages, and it has become part of my morning routine into the Escape School in London:
Wake up. Shower. Make a 3-egg and veg scramble. Walk to the Tube. Step onto the District line. Sit down. Pull out my notebook. Start writing.
My task is to write three pages, longhand. If I don’t hit three pages on my Tube ride (which I normally don’t), I duck into a coffeeshop to finish the rest.
So, what are these “Morning Pages” and why do I care so much about them?

Morning Pages is a practice introduced by Julia Cameron in The Artist’s Way, a book designed to help blocked creatives get unblocked.
Although it’s disguised as a book for “artists” — it’s really a guide for anyone who’s feeling stuck, unfulfilled in their work, or believe that their best music is left unsung (even if they don’t know what song they’re meant to be singing).
It’s a book to help people deal with that sonofabitch Steven Pressfield calls out by name in The War of Art: “The Resistance”
Cameron’s The Artist’s Way is meant for anyone who wants to tap back into their creative selves. Which frankly could be any of us. Because, if we’re honest, we’re all creative. Even if we’ve managed to forget that somewhere along the way.
There are two bedrock practices that Cameron swears by and implores her readers to undertake in The Artist’s Way. The first is Morning Pages. (The second is the Artist Date, which is an equally amazing practice, and which I’ll write about another time).
The practice of Morning Pages is simple: write three pages, long-hand, upon (or nearly upon) waking. No thinking, no analyzing, no stressing. Just write. Put pen to paper and squiggle it around until it forms words. What you write matters little. What matters is just that you write. Get whatever is at the forefront of your mind out of your mind and place it onto the page. Do not hold back. Do not judge. And do not stop until you’ve hit three pages.
This is not meant to be high art. The output of Morning Pages is not for public consumption. Cameron suggests they’re not even for private consumption:
I’ve come to love my morning pages. Which is unlike my love/hate relationship with writing publicly (my soul seems to require it, but damnit the process feels like wrestling with the Hulk). I love my morning pages because there is no heaviness in the outcome of the pages. It’s a form of unnecessary creation — just writing for the sake of writing. There may be heaviness in trying to form the habit of writing itself (more on this below), but once you crack that, it’s all lightness. It’s a lightness that lives in caring about the process itself, not in the outcome of that process.
Sometimes my morning pages are a streaming conscious-like flow of questions with half-assed answers. Sometimes they recount a day or a night or a moment. Other times they explore a philosophy, an idea, an obstacle or an opportunity. Sometimes they feel profound. Mostly they feel like bitching, and if read out loud, would resemble cracked-out crazy-person talk.
Which I suppose is the point. So much of our mind, if we’re paying attention, is cluttered and a’flutter with unhelpful, cracked-out thoughts. It’s this kind of muck that blocks us from doing the work we truly aspire to be doing; it’s the junk that hold us back from becoming the person we hope to become.
Whether it’s Morning Pages or some other ritual, it seems that people who create things that resonate or live storybook-like lives have some sort of daily practice. Entire books are even dedicated to the daily routines of accomplished people.
Whatever the routine, it seems that one purpose of these daily rituals is to get the noisy crazies out of the way to leave space for some magic to enter. If it chooses to enter. Or rather, put both the crazy and magic together on the same page so at least you can view them as peers and have a better shot at telling them apart.
Morning Pages is a sifter for the mind. Like meditation or running, it’s one more tool used to separate and disarm those unhelpful thoughts and help those introverted golden thoughts to shine through. Because there are gold in dem hills. Sometimes we just need a practice and a tool to help extract it.
Morning Pages have the potential to be cathartic, helpful and light. If there is a heaviness, it doesn’t exist in the ritual itself, but on the road toward the ritual.

I’m certainly no expert on building habits or rituals. (For that, I suggest checking out The Power of Habit by Charles Duhigg.) But if there’s anything I’ve learned from my newfound dedication to Morning Pages, it’s that there are ways to encourage a habit to stick.
Writing and becoming a better writer is something that drives me. It’s a strong craving I fell into when I started this blog. It’s something I can’t seem to shake.
For the habit you hope to create — what is your burning why behind it all? Why bother with this habit at all?
Sometimes the craving can come from a pain that’s too tough to bear.
Craving or pain, try to articulate and harness a strong emotion and align it with the why behind the habit. Find it and hold it tightly. Tie it to the new habit you hope to form. Use it as fuel. Give it a purpose. Your habit depends on it.
My Morning Pages has a friend — my already established daily routine.
When I sit down on the Tube, the act of pulling out my notebook has become a knee-jerk reaction. It happens almost without me thinking.
My Morning Pages also has a kryptonite — the absence of my routine.
When I do not take the Tube in the morning, when I am rushing to a meeting, when my morning routine is shaken up — my habit crumbles. My Morning Pages live and die by my ability to keep a routine.
Ideally, if the habit has sustained long enough, it will become its own ingrained habit like eating breakfast or brushing teeth. Which is a ritual’s goal: to become a routine itself so that another new ritual can piggyback on top of it.
What’s my reward for having done morning pages? For one, it’s the satisfaction of achieving a little sliver of clarity and comfort that the Pages tend to deliver. It doesn’t always come. But the times that it does makes it worth the daily habit.
There’s also the reward of having written and documented my thoughts. It’s being able to look at my stack of weathered notebooks and know that I’ve created something, just for the sake of it. For the sake of remembering that I am a human and therefore can create. And that when faced with the choice to either create or not create — I went forth and created.
And finally, as someone who sways toward introversion, I’ve noticed it takes dedication, care and patience to make myself heard. Even if it’s only to myself.
Like the simple truth Bertie learns leading up to his final battle with the mic in The King’s Speech, Morning Pages helps to remind me: “I have a voice.”
And if that isn’t reward enough, I’m not sure what is.
Thank you for reading.
If you enjoyed this and think it can help others, will you please “Recommend” or share with a friend?
And if you want to stay in touch with me (Matt), please join me…On my home turf: GiveLiveExploreIn London at The Escape SchoolOR…In the English countryside for a weekend of fun & adventure: Escape to the Woods
Former consultant turned deliberate journeyer @ GiveLiveExplore.com. Building a school for corp escapees @escthecity. Publishing @TalesofIceland. Speaking @TEDx
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

What is one thing most successful people have in common? They get up extra early and make the most of the morning. Here’s why:
Waking up early gives you time to think before the buzz of the day begins. To put it simply, the early morning is “you time” — a time to lay out your priorities for the day and make progress against them, before others are demanding your time and attention. It puts you firmly in control of each day.
Of course it is awfully hard to get out of bed, but that’s exactly why early risers have the competitive advantage over everyone else. They tackle the day while others hit the snooze button.
Here are just a few examples of ultra-successful early risers:
Did you notice another consistent trend among all of these ultra-successful people? Everyone’s morning ritual includes exercise as a key component.
In addition to the overall health and fitness benefits, studies have shown that moderate-intensity exercise for 20+ minutes produces a mental and emotional boost for the following 12 hours! This means that these business leaders are likely more clear-headed, effective, and productive at work as a direct result of their morning workout. The exercise time also allows them to think and problem-solve without interruption, so they hit the ground running once they get into the office. Morning exercise is an incredibly efficient use of time.
In addition to waking up extra early and exercising, here are a few more morning habits to get your day moving in the right direction:
All of this sets you up for success before your “work day” even begins, whatever form that may take for you. Being a morning person isn’t reserved for just C-level execs. Everyone will benefit from implementing these good habits.
Think it’s not possible for you because you need the extra sleep? The experts would say to get to bed earlier the night before to make the early wake-up call tolerable.
These tips and success stories help motivate me to get out of bed when all I want to do is sleep a bit more, and hopefully they also inspire you to make the morning your secret weapon!
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
If you enjoyed this post, please hit the “recommend” button below. Thanks!
For more stories like this one, “Follow” me to see my latest posts.
I write about good habits for productivity, health, happiness, & success. Marketing at Clif Bar, formerly Red Bull, Dodgers, Red Sox. Twitter @andrewmerle
Sharing our ideas and experiences
Everyday, I receive emails, LinkedIn smail (spam mail), texts and/or Facebook messages from people looking for resume help. I typically don’t respond to them — not because I don’t want to help but because they’re not listening to me when I tell them that any resume I create is NOT going to get them a job.
And, let me be straight, it’s not because I’m not good at fabricating bullet points for them.
The reason upgrading their resume isn’t going to work is because it’s not a resume that scores you a job. It’s relationships.
Have you ever heard the saying: “It’s who you know?”
It’s the absolute truth.
Today, I’m going to detail how you can land a job, and it does NOT involve me (or you) writing or editing your resume.
What it does involve is learning how to navigate your email inbox and woo your way into hiring managers’ (or their bosses’).

Duh! This is what you’re probably thinking.
It’s not what I’m thinking though since I receive emails from senders with addresses like “popprincess69@aol.com” and “iluvaaron@yahoo.com.”
Alright, alright, those are extreme examples, but they’re not far off, and they’re actually REAL humans — not spam bots.
Here’s my setup tips. Read them. I bet there’s something you forgot!
This is the prettiest email signature solution. Not only is it a better looking option but it is also easy to switch signatures between email accounts.
Yesware reports email opens, link clicks and file attachment downloads. This is valuable because it lets you know if you should follow up with someone or not and when, if you should. It also has a template feature many of you could use. Let’s say you’re applying to jobs, and you’re finding that you’re saying basically the same thing every time you email hiring managers. Write and save a template in Yesware then just personalize it from now on. That could knock off a lot of time for you.
Crystal isn’t kidding when it claims to be the biggest improvement to email since spell check. This email extension creates unique personality profiles for every person with an online presence, prepping you to speak or write in someone else’s natural, communication style. Crystal not only makes recommendations on which words you should use, but it even generates email templates based on the person you’re communicating with.
A LOT of emails are being tracked for clicks and opens. Use Ugly Email, a free gmail extension that tells you when an email is being tracked before you open it. This circumvents problems like opening an email and then not responding or opening the email 75 million times, which makes you look unproductive.
If you want to know other email tools I love check out this article.
According to Mindtools, the average office worker receives around 80 emails each day.
That makes it REALLY EASY for hiring managers to skip over your email, when it includes an error. Your email has an error if it’s:
The perfect email is short, easily scannable and includes a very clear call-to-action (CTA).
If you forget any of my tips, don’t forget this one!!! Make your email easily scannable. That means break up paragraphs into one sentence — two, if you must.
By this I mean utilize bold text, italics, and bullet points. This helps make your email easily scannable. Sometimes I even change important text’s color to red or highlight important sentences in bright yellow.
Send or schedule (if you use Yesware), your emails at optimal times. Think about it for a second. The best time to send a job request/application is most likely not at 1 a.m. on a Saturday night/morning. Monday probably isn’t good either because professionals will be busy playing catch up. I recommend sending between Tuesday and Thursday, in the morning or afternoon, say between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m.
Here are the elements of a damn good email.
Subject LineThe goal of your subject line is to drive the person you want to read your email to, well, open it to read the damn thing. I like to do this by complimenting the receiver in the subject line and letting them know that I want to provide value to them.
See how I did this in the fictitious example above to myself?
I told them I was a HUGE fan then preceded to tell them I wanted to HELP them do something.
Message
A mentor once told me to send 50 emails per week to get what I wanted, and our advisor, said he used to send as many as 300 per week to get generate new business.
Emails are how you get what you want from someone you don’t know, i.e. hiring managers.
Here’s what you got to do.
Yes, 25. That isn’t a lot so I don’t feel bad assigning you that many.
You may say: But, Lauren, there are not 25 jobs posted that I want.
And I’ll say: But, Jimmy, that does not matter at all.
According to ABC, 80 percent of jobs are landed through networking.
Emailing allows you to network with people across the nation, not just those professionals in your city; therefore, if you want a job in NY but live in Idaho, you can simply shoot off an email introducing yourself to someone you admire in New York.
People to send emails to:
This is pretty self-explanatory. I reread my emails nearly five to six times before I hit send… And I still catch errors sometimes. #Embarrassing
I HATE following up because the last thing I ever want to be to someone I want something from is annoying. But guess what?! I do. Because if you don’t ask for what you want then you’ll never get what you want, and sometimes you have to ask for it multiple times.
Like Mark Cuban says, “Every no gets me closer to a yes.”
Too many of you give up too easily.
What if a hiring manager only responded to those who had enough gumption to write a follow up to her lack of response the first time?
It could happen. I’m sure there’s a manager out there that does this although I’m also sure that it’s rare.
Neil Patel recommends the template I took a screenshot of and copied below.
Here’s a few templates from this post on The Muse.
Here’s an example from when I followed up after a hiring manager had me complete an assignment, but then didn’t follow up with me within a week, as he promised.
Basically, just remember keep follow up emails short and to the point and don’t forget to provide alternatives for the receiver. Alternatives could include something like them delegating what you want to someone else. This way you always get what you want — a response.
This is how you get a job, my friends, — by creating relationships with people.
I don’t receive job offers on the reg because I’ve sent this perfectly concocted resume to millions of hiring managers.
Job offers come to me because I’ve invested the time to build a strong, helpful network of influential individuals in my field.
founder, freelanship.com | growth, inbound.org | entrepreneur editor, sitepoint.com
Some really awesome, forward-thinking stuff.
by Tobias van Schneider — First appeared in my personal email list.

We’re always waiting for inspiration to find us. We’re waiting to get inspired to paint this perfect piece of art, to build the next big thing or to come up with this great advertising idea. We’re just sitting there waiting.
I still do it sometimes, like an idiot as if I don’t know better after all these years of chasing inspiration.
The problem with finding the perfect inspiration is that it’s just a romantic dream. Waiting for inspiration to show up and solve my problems is really nothing more than an empty promise.
Inspiration is a little bit like love. Seeking for the perfect love is like seeking for perfect inspiration. The harder you try, the longer it will take. It’s like magic, maybe even luck.
Now you might think that luck is not fair and rather unpredictable because some have more and some have less. For me luck is more like an attitude.
You might not be able to control your own luck or inspiration, but you can definitely enhance it’s chances by putting yourself in positions where luck & inspiration is more likely to happen.
When talking about inspiration, we first need to stop seeking inspiration. This might sound counterproductive at first and appears to involve risk because we often work under pressure, and we don’t have the time to stop thinking about something we actually need to think about.
Let’s just imagine inspiration exists as a random pattern in our life, as in the example I illustrated below. When forcing to find inspiration (see 1) my path is very linear/narrow and the chances are pretty low to get hit by inspiration — It will probably take forever.
If I don’t try to force inspiration to happen, my path appears to be more organic & random (see 2). I might go for a walk, I go to the movies, read a book or just start working. It doesn’t matter what I do, but what happens is that I put myself in situations where I’m more likely to get hit by those little spots of inspiration.
The key is to start doing something, RIGHT NOW! — It’s about to start working immediately even if you don’t feel inspired or know where you are going yet. Inspiration will only hit you once you are already in motion, not while standing still doing nothing.
And as Pablo Picasso already said:
This is an interesting concept because it completely goes against our logic that we first have to be inspired in order to work. But in reality that’s a lie — It’s exactly the other way around.
So the next time you say “I just don’t feel inspired right now” you know how to fix it. Start working right now and create your own inspiration.
Happy SundayTobias
___I’m Tobias, a Product Design Lead at Spotify NYC. Founder of Authentic Weather & Semplice, Advisor & UX at memomi — www.vanschneider.com
Director of Fun & Product Design Lead at Spotify NYC / Founder @semplicelabs — Board of Directors @AIGANYC + Advisor @memorymirror

We love data and we track everything here at .io. So couple of weeks ago we decided to track our team performance in terms of keyboard and mouse activity during the working day.
Our team is small — 1 designer, 2 developers and 2 content editors. And a couple of management guys of course. Our office is at the floor 23, so apart from staring in the window we work a lot here.
We installed simple Chrome plugin on every macbook and collected some statistics within a week with our event tracking system t.onthe.io.
Developers showed pretty unexpected figures. They have less keypresses than editors and managers — around 4k every day.


The most popular key is Command (on Macs) — 20% of all keys. The least popular is Spacebar. They use Tab key 5 times more frequently than all the rest team members together.
Their activity during the day (and night) is the less predictable and the activity graphs have lots of smooth areas and jumps. That’s because they walk around, think a lot and after a “eureka” moment sit down and write tons of code.
Managers are total winners in terms of amount of pressed keys — 3 times more than developers and even 1.5 times more than editors!


They press a key every 3 seconds in average. Emails take a lot.
Managers’ activity during the day is quite stable — they write and receive letters all day long. An average amount of keys pressed during the day is 23k and more. Spammers.
Editors are typing twice as much as developers and make less mistakes. Backspace usage is less than for all the rest team.


And the most popular key is… the space — 10% of all keypresses.
Editors’ activity is not stable but pretty predictable. Activity peaks fall on the beginning of the day — when all the articles are written. For the rest of the day they read them through, replace the words, read again and again, and then post.
Designer is pretty predictable — Command and Backspace are two buttons that he presses 20% of all. He does more mouse moves than developers and content editors together. His mouse travels 1 kilometer every day.

Office manager is the least active, making only 2k keypresses per day. That’s 5 times less than managers. 11% of all used keys is Space.
What’s curious — the least popular keys are Capslock and Right Mouse Button. Somewhere around 0.1% of all keypresses together. It’s time to make some changes to keyboards.
So we have managers who are keypress leaders. Designer who is a mouse movement champion. And editors who are doing 2 times less errors than the team average.
Now we are wondering what we should track next. Ideas?

Bruce Lee wanted one of his students to die.
Then he explained why.
And he’s right. I’ve seen this happen to people in my own life.
My best friend growing up died from it. He just gave up. He stopped.
Every day you can decide: 1% up. Or 1% down. You never notice it from day to day because it’s such a small difference.
Pick one area of your life you love. And improve it 1%.
It’s the most important thing you will do today.
Written by someone being trained by Bruce Lee:
“Bruce had me up to three miles a day, really at a good pace. We’d run the three miles in twenty-one or twenty-tow minutes. Just under eight minutes a mile [Note: when running on his own in 1968, Lee would get his time down to six-and-a-half minutes per mile].
So this morning he said to me “We’re going to go five.”
I said, “Bruce, I can’t go five. I’m a helluva lot older than you are, and I can’t do five.”
He said, “When we get to three, we’ll shift gears and it’s only two more and you’ll do it.”
I said “Okay, hell, I’ll go for it.”
So we get to three, we go into the fourth mile and I’m okay for three or four minutes, and then I really begin to give out.
I’m tired, my heart’s pounding, I can’t go any more and so I say to him, “Bruce if I run any more,” — and we’re still running — “if I run any more I’m liable to have a heart attack and die.”
He said, “Then die.” It made me so mad that I went the full five miles.
Afterward I went to the shower and then I wanted to talk to him about it.
I said, you know, “Why did you say that?”
He said, “Because you might as well be dead. Seriously, if you always put limits on what you can do, physical or anything else, it’ll spread over into the rest of your life. It’ll spread into your work, into your morality, into your entire being. There are no limits. There are plateaus, but you must not stay there, you must go beyond them. If it kills you, it kills you. A man must constantly exceed his level.”
More From James
Latest Podcast: Ep 125: Rich Roll & Julie Piatt: Quit the NonsenseIs it possible to transform your life on the eve of your 40th birthday, and experience meaning, vitality, and purpose like you’ve never before imagined?
Latest Ask Altucher: Ep 335: Q&A DayWhat’s an effective way to deal with complainers? James says help the complainer focus on other things, and if they’re a chronic complainer, then just remove yourself from the conversation. You’ll notice the complaints will slow down.
Recommended Article: The One Learning Technique That Scared The S*** Out of Bruce LeeBruce Lee said, “I don’t fear the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks. I fear the man who practiced one kick 10,000 times.
For some reason, I've turned myself inside out and all my guts have spilled onto my blog. One day I'll run out of stuff but not yet.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Leaders lately aren’t. Here are their four top mistakes.
Whether it’s the rise of the extreme right in Europe, Donald Trump’s ascent in the US, Canada’s stunning plunge into fringe politics, the world is awash in a new political phenomenon: a tsunami of vocal, angry extremism, where once placid waters calmly shimmered. Not extreme enough for you? In one of the world’s most advanced societies, unemployed kids, of which there are too many, are going to have to go…not to school, college, or even community service…but to boot camp.
WTF?
In this short essay, I want to offer a lens through which to see this phenomenon. A few years ago, there was a huge leadership deficit in the world. No one, it seemed, was steering the ship. And perhaps you thought things couldn’t get worse. But today things are different: there’s not a deficit of leadership anymore. There is a surplus of bad leadership. Too many angry, blind pilots pointing ships…straight into the icebergs. Leadership, it appears, has fallen into a deep abyss. From which it must climb out, if it is to regain its place in the world again.
And before I begin let me note. This isn’t an essay I particularly want to write. But the truth is that there are too few voices speaking too few simple truths about this unsettling — and profoundly self-destructive — phenomenon.
Let us, then, put our prejudices aside, and examine these new leaders. So we may see what they stand for — and whether it is worth believing in. What is striking — and immediately obvious — is that they share four positions in common; and that is what distinguishes them as a phenomenon, a class, a category, a larger movement.
Fatalism. Donald Trump wants to deport even the innocent children of undocumented immigrants — and build a Great Wall of America. David Cameron has literally shut down immigration to the UK. In Australia, refugees (who are innocent of any crime) are detained in offshore prisons where they are allegedly waterboarded. What the neo-demagogues share, above all, is an absurd answer to the great question of social inclusion: none. The evidence, of course, suggests squarely that immigration (among other kinds of inclusion) is a great benefit to society. But the demagogue exploits people’s selfishness in an age of stagnation — why should the immigrant have any, when I suddenly have barely enough?
The demagogue exploits people’s selfishness because his is a world of zero-sum thinking. If I have more, you must have less. Hence, it is “logical”, the demagogues claims to wish everyone ill. Immigrants, the disabled, the poor, the vulnerable — when all these people have more, they are taking bread from your mouth!! That is the central claim of the demagogue, and it is present everywhere in their economic policies — which are simply largely excuses to beggar everyone’s neighbor. Hence, the demagogue proposes no real social policies at all — only cutting society…all the way to zero. Hence, Cameron in the UK is eviscerating the NHS, BBC, and more; Canada and Australia, too, are beginning to dismantle their great public institutions. After all, that is the logical endpoint of beggar-thy-neighbor: there are no public goods worth investing in at all.
But that is not what prosperity is at all: any reasoned understanding of it begins with the notion that if I am to have less for you to have more, then no one is better off in the first place; we have merely changed places. True prosperity is beyond the demagogue’s logic entirely: it is a state where both you and I benefit from one another’s existence, despite what it costs us. That may seem a subtle point. But it is the starting point for the great enterprise known as the social contract — for without a shared prosperity, there is no reason for citizens to bother with one another at all. To simplify: the demagogue tells us that social contracts are impediments in the way of prosperity — not its foundations and arches. And so he reduces the great accomplishments of history to rubble.
There’s a simpler way to put the zero-sum assumption of the demagogue: fatalism. It is a belief that the immigrant, the weak, the vulnerable — these cannot benefit the strong, the sure, those who “belong”; they simply do not have the potential to. It is a fatalistic disbelief in human potential itself. And you can’t be much of a leader if you don’t believe in human potential.
Scapegoating. You will note that the true cause of economic stagnation is not addressed by the demagogue at all. It wasn’t immigrants, the poor, or the vulnerable that caused a financial crisis. So who was it? Duh. It was bankers — who malinvested in toxic assets, and then flogged them, for a double profit, right back to the state, which promptly then had a crisis because it’s balance sheet suddenly went to hell. It’s so painfully stupid I have to say it again: the economy melted down because of badly run banks, not (of all people) immigrants — and frankly, if you believe anything but, you are a rube, a sucker, a mark. You think your plumber somehow flushed ten trillion dollars down the toilet?
Let me put it plainly. To persecute immigrants and the poor for a weak economy instead of bankers is like blaming your pet kitten for terrorism. That is precisely what neo-demagogues are doing when they blame immigrants (and other vulnerable groups) for weak economies: scapegoating them.
Nowhere — in not a single advanced economy — do we see demagogues calling for bankers to be prosecuted and brought to justice for ruining the economy — not a single modern day demagogue has called for it. But they are relentless, and extreme, in their persecution of people that didn’t ruin it. The interesting question is: why? It isn’t just that banks are the demagogue’s friend. Rather, it is because demagogues do not understand how the economy works at all. They equate money with wealth — and so they do not understand that wealth is what prosperity is actually composed of, and money is merely paper that helps us distribute it; therefore, money must be hoarded, concentrated, and denied to those who haven’t “earned” it — instead of distributed widely, precisely so society can continue to prosper. Real leaders don’t scapegoat: they do precisely the opposite — they celebrate (and reward) those who have truly bettered us.
Timidity. You may think that demogagues, angry and loud as they are, are reckless firebrands. But the truth is that they are timid, cowering, panicked things. Let me explain.
Because the demagogue believes that money is wealth, the next plank in his plan for society is to “eliminate the deficit”. But this is a negative real interest rate world. Little could be more mind-bendingly absurd. It’s so illogical I struggle to find a metaphor. Restoring economic health by cutting the deficit in a negative interest rate world is like trying not to have sex in order to reproduce.
Think about it. There are mountains of capital moving around the globe in desperate search of investment opportunities (hence, the super rich stashing money in London and NYC real estate). There has rarely been a better time for governments to invest, and invest with a vengeance, in modern history. Societies should be building gleaming new schools, hospitals, roads, bridges…giving free money to students…raising the salaries of teachers and other public employees…everything and anything under the sun that society so visibly needs.
Let me make the logic crystal clear. If I offered to lend you a million dollars, at a negative interest rate of ten percent a year, for 100 years, would you accept? You’d be one of history’s great fools not to. You’d have to pay me back…zero; in fact, I’d owe you money. You could simply invest a market index, or even just hold cash, and you’d make free money. Your timidity would lead you to miss a life-changing opportunity.
But that is exactly what demagogues don’t want governments to do. They believe, timidly — and have convinced foolish people — that nations are “going broke”; that they cannot “afford to” invest in public goods, like schools, hospitals, roads, or clean air and water. Why? Not just because they are economic illiterates — but because they are devoted to their own ignorance. They fetishize the deficit like a wrathful god to be ritualistically appeased with human sacrifice. But real leaders don’t timidly, fearfully obey empty commandments—they are bold and wise enough to revolt. Especially against hollow gods, whether made of stone or of numbers, in the promise of each life’s possibility to grow and mature.
Dehumanization. It’s possible, of course, for demagoguery to come from either left or right. But what is characteristic of neo-demagogues today is that they are products of the extreme right. Why? Because, in the wake of financial crisis, in the teeth of economic stagnation, people are overwhelmed by anxieties and fears that have left them angry, worried, and confused. How will my children prosper? How will I retire? Who will take care of me in my old age? How will we afford to maintain the lifestyle to which we are accustomed?
The demagogue’s choice is to provide people answers which exploit their prejudices and biases, and prey on their ignorance and foolishness. Demagogues, in short, bring out the worst in people. And that is why they are very effective politicians. They may arouse the passions of people. But they do so in the same that a drug dealer might. They awaken people’s appetites for self-destruction and hate — not for creation, nobility, and greatness.
Let me explain.
The demagogue justifies his claims with a very simple appeal. If we’d exclude the weak, pay off the bills, and punish the undeserving, the demagogue claims, everyone else could have a life worth living. And that life is precisely the same for all the neo-demagogues of meta-modernity. It is a dream of hyperrational individualistic materialism: a McMansion, a fleet of cars, and gadgets for every family. So what’s wrong with that? Nothing.
But there’s not much right with it, either. The simple truth is that is the least a great society should aspire to. More than mere material prosperity, a society that wishes to be truly great must encourage it’s people to be great. Great thinkers, artists, healers, teachers, leaders, creators, dreamers, builders. Not just grinning brain-dead zombie-consumers sucking down the dregs of post-capitalist prosperity left at the bottom of the cup through a broken straw of corrupt institutions and wrecked social contracts. But that is precisely what the neo-demagogues of meta-modernity want us to be.
That is their true gleaming flaw. Not merely that they call forth the worst in us. But that they do not do justice to the best in us. For the best that they want for us is merely the worst in us…not to be great, noble, wondrous people, who do amazing and remarkable things…but merely to be monsters with insatiable appetites. Not beings, who, though born in sin, defiantly ever hold the possibility of grace in our broken hearts.
That is the tragedy of the demagogues. They ask us to hate. But they do not know that we must, if we are to live fully, love. Not merely in the empty technological consumerist sense — a tap, a swipe, a date, and a hangover. But in the true and timeless sense. We must brim over with mercy if we are to know grace. We must overflow with humility if we are to know meaning. We must burst open our selves if we are to know their place in creation. It is not enough for us to be consumers, bullies, predators, smiling monsters denouncing our neighbors, if we are to be the people we were meant to be. We must be dreamers, rebels, renegades, heretics, outlaws. Everything, in short, that the demagogues do not want us to be.
That, of course, is our great challenge. To be the very leaders that a broken, hunted, anxious world is so desperately missing.

UmairNYCAugust 2015

Photo credit.
author, economist, slayer of zombies.
Essays  by Umair Haque

UPDATE: Thanks to a good friend of mine, at the end of this text is the English version.Thank you very much Giovana Angelo.
Todos têm um limite, mesmo os jornalistas e fotojornalistas, e embora seja difícil de chegar a ele, hoje eu cheguei.
E passei dele.
Começo esse texto com dois pedidos de desculpas:
1º — Sei que várias vezes critiquei a postura de alguns fotógrafos que se deixavam levar pelo calor da situação quando deveriam apenas observar e registrar, mas hoje fui eu que me vi nessa situação;
2º — Não irei usar uma linguagem jornalística neste texto. Já que cruzei a fronteira uma vez, vou aproveitar a viagem, então se preparem, não vou segurar a língua.
Pois bem, já sabia que hoje seria um espetáculo bizarro, cheio de coisas que, como diria um grande amigo meu (abraço para você meu caro amigo Américo), fariam um macaco vomitar.
Normalmente eu parto da política de apenas registar fotograficamente os eventos sem interferência nenhuma, sem questionar ou discutir além do necessário para o trabalho, mas acho que todo mundo tem um limite, além do que, já deixei para trás faz tempo a ilusão de que existe o jornalismo imparcial. Aliás, essa foi uma descoberta bacana, porque pude entender que posso me posicionar e ainda assim fazer um trabalho jornalístico decente.
Já no final da tarde, um grupo de membros dos Jornalistas Livres resolveu fazer uma intervenção onde uma bandeira do Brasil era estendida e uma pessoa deitava sobre ela, toda coberta de sangue (ketchup, só para constar) enquanto sua mãe pranteava sua morte. Depois disso, um cartaz era colocado com os dizeres Falta vermelho nessa bandeira. Claro que qualquer pessoa com o mínimo de bom senso teria notado que isso era uma menção à chacina ocorrida no final de semana em Barueri e Osasco, mas como o “sangue” era vermelho, isso foi o suficiente para decretar que aquelas pessoas eram petistas. Sem julgamento, sem chance de defesa, apenas com um júri/juiz/executor, ou melhor dizendo, uma turba de acéfalos que não faziam ideia do que estavam falando.
É claro que não sou ingênuo de achar que essa ação por mais que tenha um fundo crítico e politizado, teve sua parte de provocação, mas até então isso não deveria ser problema já que todos batiam no peito ao dizer que era um protesto pacífico e democrático (precisam urgentemente rever o conceito de democrático) além de sequer terem mencionado “aqueles que não devem ser nominados” (só para não ficar dúvida, estou falando de Dilma, Lula e o PT).
Durante a performance, quando a atriz estava deitada, duas pessoas que são dessa gente de bem resolveram participar da intervenção (#sqn) da forma que esse povo entende por democracia: Uma senhora, na casa dos seus 40 anos, muito bem vestida resolveu pintar a testa da atriz com as tintas que ela carregava. Um outro rapaz, mais eufórico, pegou uma caneca de plástico, também cheia de tinta, e atirou contra ela.
A atriz, como uma boa morta, não se mexia, não reclamava, apenas ficava ali inerte, cumprindo o seu papel e jogando na cara deles uma realidade que praticamente todos ali faziam questão de ignorar.
Quando a atriz se levantou já no encerramento da intervenção, ela ficou ali parada, em pé, com o olhar perdido e ignorando os gritos que a chamavam de bandida, vagabunda, ladrão (sim, eles tem problemas em concordar os gêneros eu acho) e outras coisas.
Não bastasse, mais um manifestante resolveu colar na testa dela um adesivo, numa pífia tentativa de chamar a atenção ou, a probabilidade que mais me assusta, de realmente achar que estava fazendo algo bom, algo correto.
Depois disso, me dirigi ao cidadão que jogou a tinta na atriz e à mulher que havia pintado o rosto dela. Ambos estavam próximos (talvez a gente realmente atraia aquilo que emanamos…) e pedi se podia gravar uma declaração deles sobre o que havia acontecido ali e também sobre o que fizeram.
O cara (vou chamá-lo assim já que nem o nome quis dizer) diz “Não cara, melhor não” e a mulher diz “não quero, não autorizo”. Nessa hora perguntei porque eles tiveram peito de jogar a tinta, mas não tinham a mesma coragem para falar e serem filmados e a resposta foi o primeiro passo além do meu limite.
O cara me chama de canto e fala baixo em meu ouvido que não queria falar porque ele já havia sido filiado a partidos políticos e isso poderia pegar mal para ele. Bizarro não? Jogar tinta em uma pessoa não pega mal, mas dar uma entrevista falando o porque de ter feito isso pega muito mal.
A dama da paulista disse que fez isso porque era uma provocação dos petistas, quando retruquei dizendo que aquele ato não tinha relação com o PT e era uma crítica aos assassinatos do final de semana. Com toda a educação do mundo (e arrogância de um burguês no sentido literal da palavra) ela me disse que “Ali não era lugar pra fazer isso. Se quisessem protestar que fossem fazer isso lá em Osasco e não ali na Paulista”. Com um profundo pesar (pelo tipo de ser humano que ela era) perguntei se a violência na periferia não era uma pauta que merecia ser levada às ruas, mas ela disse que “não, coisa da periferia tem que ser resolvida na periferia” e após proferir essa frase abundante em bondade, democracia e justiça (vale lembrar que virava e mexia se ouvia nos trio elétricos alguém dizendo que eles não estavam lá por se preocuparem com seus próprios umbigos, mas sim por querer o melhor para o país todo. Aham… senta lá Cláudia!) ela encerrou o assunto dizendo “Você não concorda comigo e eu não concordo com você, então não tem porque conversarmos.”. Não sei se só para mim isso soou como você está comigo ou está contra mim.
Saí dali e fui até a esquina onde os atores haviam ido para retomar a intervenção, próximo de um destacamento de policiais.
Novamente foram seguidos por várias pessoas que continuavam com seus gritos de ordem (aqueles que falei antes lembram? Petistas, vagabundos, ladrões, miseráveis e outros. Lembraram?). Nesse momento eu já estava bem frustrado e de saco cheio, mas ainda mantinha a determinação de tentar apenas observar até que novamente escuto um senhor com os seus 60 e tantos anos chamar eles de petistas. Parei e perguntei (acreditem, de forma educada. Pasmem!!!!) se ele sabia que aquilo era uma crítica a chacina que havia acontecido em Osasco e o que ele achava disso.
“Foi muito bom que tenham feito isso. Tinha que matar mesmo.”.
Não dava mais, aí fodeu tudo e a paciência e tolerância foram para o saco. Um outro senhor, da mesma faixa etária, veio falar que essa chacina tinha sido de traficante matando traficante e eu disse que não, com certeza aquilo era trabalho de policiais.
Pronto, acabou a educação. Entre perguntas se eu sabia o que era um inquérito e que os jornais só mentiam, a coisa foi chegando ao ponto em que eu virei “um bosta” e logo depois eu já era a escória e sei lá mais o que. Nessa hora confesso que entrei na pilha dele e fiquei de saco cheio e comecei a discutir.
Errei? Talvez, mas não tenho sangue de barata e até que demorou para ele ferver. Era insano discutir com ele, argumentos desconexos, um ódio cego e sem sentido. Quando ele me xingou a primeira vez eu perguntei se eu o havia ofendido ou se ele me conhecia para afirmar esse tipo de coisa. Disse que eu era um petista e que eu estava ali fotografando de graça. Então eu disse que não, que eu estava fazendo fotos para uma agência de fotografia e ele me pergunta se eu não quero então fotografar de graça um aniversário ou casamento para ele.
Alguém entendeu?
Nessa hora eu já comecei a tirar sarro e dizer que ele devia ir jogar bingo ou sentar na praça para jogar milho para os pombos ao invés de ir lá ficar falando besteira, mas como não sou ruim, também disse para ele maneirar porque naquela idade ele já devia tomar cuidado com a pressão e não ficar tão exaltado (ok, fui irônico sim caso alguém não tenha notado).
Seria engraçado se não fosse trágico você ouvir um senhor de idade (mas lembrem-se, os canalhas também envelhecem) dizer:
— Esse é um protesto pacífico e respeitoso. Seu bosta!!!!!
Se isso é um protesto pacífico e respeitoso, gostaria de saber qual a visão dele de um protesto agressivo e desrespeitoso. Não, pensando bem não quero não.
A essa altura, outros amigos fotógrafos intervieram para tentar acalmar os ânimos e também começaram a ser agredidos verbalmente pelas pessoas que se amontoavam ali.
Os policiais próximos do tumulto fizeram o que passaram o dia todo fazendo: Ficaram de paisagem.
Os gritos cessaram e segundo alguns que estavam ali e afirmaram categoricamente, eu era um petista. Engraçado pensar que eu nem sabia que o era, até porque eu justifiquei meu voto nas últimas eleições (mas votaria na Dilma se tivesse votado).
Hoje senti na pele a tal da polarização que tanto se fala. Ou você é uma coisa ou você é outra e ponto final. Alguns amigos disseram que eu havia vacilado em entrar na pilha do velho (velho no sentido de retrógrado e anacrônico e também da idade), mas chega uma hora que não dá para ouvir tanta besteira e se calar.
Sempre pensei que o trabalho de um fotojornalista é o de mostrar a realidade e provocar mudanças, mas além de disso acho que o principal é não perder a capacidade de se indignar com as injustiças.
Posso ter errado do ponto de vista jornalístico, profissional, porém não me arrependo e faria tudo de novo se fosse necessário.
O Brasil está ferrado como está? Sim, sem dúvida alguma, mas se essas pessoas são a única solução, então infelizmente o país tem um triste futuro pela frente.
E quando eu estava indo embora, cutucaram meu ombro. Uma moça que estava ali e que eu nunca tinha visto. Ela estava ali para encontrar com o namorado e não me conhecia, mas quando me virei para ela, me deu um sorriso e disse:
— Parabéns pela coragem em enfrentar eles pelo que é certo.
Errei? Talvez tenha errado, mas quer saber? Foda-se, não tem preço a consciência tranquila por ter feito o que é certo.
Ou pelo menos o que acredito ser.


The day I was called ‘petista’
Everybody has limits, even the jornalists and photographers, and even though it is hard to reach it, today I did.
And crossed its line.
I will start this text with two apologies:
1st — I know that several times I have criticized the attitudes of some photographers that let themselves be carried away by the heat of the moment when they should only observe and register, but today I was the one who saw myself in that situation;
2nd — I will not use journalistic language in this text. Since I have already crossed the boundries once, I will seize the opportunity, so prepare yourselves, I will not hold my tongue.
Well, I knew today would be a bizarre episode, full of things that as friend of mine would say (nice regards to you my dear friend Americo), would make a monkey throw up.
Usually I adopt a political attitude to only register photographically the events without any interference, no questioning nor interfering beyond necessary for the job, but I think everybody has limits, besides I have already left behind a long time ago the illusion that impartial journalism exist. By the way, this was a nice discovery, because I could understand that I can take a side and still do a good jornalistic job.
(Photo)“The frying pan was made in France and the wooden spoon in Italy, but I bought them with my money. “ said the lady’s companion.
By the afternoon, a Free Journalist ‘s group member decided to perform where a Brazilian flag was extended and a person laid over it, all covered up of blood (ketchup by the way) while her mother mourned her death. After that, a post was hang with the saying ‘Red is missing in this flag’. This is for sure that anyone with a minimum of common sense would have noticed that it was referring to the slaughter happened at the weekend in Barueri and Osasco, but since the ‘blood ‘ was red, that was enough to decree that they were ‘petitas’. With no judgment, no chance of defending, just a jury/judge/ executor, or better saying, a bunch of dumb people that had no idea of what were saying.
(Photo )Performance done by journalists members criticizing the violence in the slums and the murders happened this weekend in Barueri and Osasco.
Of course I am not naive to think that this performance regardless it has a critic and ‘policized’ background, had some teasing, but so far it should not be a problem since everyone said it was a pacific and democratic protest (need urgently to review the concept of democratic) besides they did not mention “the ones that should not be named “ (just so there are no doubts, I am talking about Dilma, Lula, and PT)
During the performance, while the actress was laid down, two people of those good souls decided to join it in a way of their understanding of democracy: a lady in her 40s, very well dressed decided to paint the actress’s forehead with the paints she was carrying. Another guy, more euphoric, got a plastic cup, also full of paint, and threw at her.
The actress, as good dead, did not move, did not complain, just kept herself motionless, doing her job and showing them the reality that most people would rather ignore.
(Photo)Protesters paint and throw paint at the actress during the performance criticizing the violence against the black young people in the slums.
When the actress stood up at the end of the performance, she remained still, just starting and ignoring the screams that called her bandit, hooker, thief and other names.
As it was not enough, another protester decided to put a sticker on her forehead, trying poorly to draw attention or possibly what scares me most, of thinking that he was doing something good, something right.
(Photo)A protestor puts a sticker on the actress forehead during the act criticizing the violence in the slums
After that, I moved towards the gentleman who threw the paint on the actress and also the lady who painted her face and asked if I could record their statement about what happened and also about what they did.
The dude (this is how I will call him since he did not want to tell me his name ) said “no dude, better not “ and the lady said “I don’t want, I don’t authorize it.” Then I asked them why they had the courage to throw the paint, but did not have the same courage to speak and to be recorded, and the answer was the first drop out of my limit control.
The dude calls me quietly and whispers in my ears that he did not want to speak because he had already been part of political parts and this would be frown upon. Weird, isn’t? Throwing paint at someone isn’t frown upon, but giving an interview telling what they had done that is really frown upon.
The lady said she did it because it was a ‘petista’ teasing, then I said that the act did not have to do with PT and that was a critism of the murders that happened in the weekend.
Very politely (and arrogantly) she told me it was not the right place for it. If they wanted to protest they should go to Osasco instead of in Paulista. I felt pity (about the human being she is) and I asked if the violence in the slums should not be taken to the streets, but she said “no, slums issues should be solved in the slums” and after saying this phrase full of kindness, democracy and justice (it is good to remember that from on an on we could hear in the parades someone saying that they were not there because they carried about themselves, but because they want a better country for everyone) she ceased talking by saying “you don’t agree with me, and I don’t with you, so there’s no reason to talk.” I am not sure, but for me it sounded like ‘you are with me or against me.’
(Photo)Selfies and photos with the policemen of ‘tropa de choque’ that posed next to the blinders tank recently bought were common during the whole day.
I left the place and went to the corner where the actors had gone to keep on the intervention, nearby some policemen.
Once again they were followed by several people that kept with their demand screams (the names I told earlier, remember? ‘Petistas’, hooker, thief, miserable, and other names. Remember?) By this time I was frustrated and sick and tired of it, but still kept being determined to only observe until the moment I heard a gentleman who is his 60s calling them ‘petitas’. I stopped and asked (believe me, I was polite) if he knew it was critic to the slaughter that happened in Osasco and what he thought about it.
“It’s very good they did it. They had to kill indeed. “
That was it, then all my patience and tolerance were gone. Another man of the same age came to say that the slaughter was drug dealer killing drug dealer, and I said no, that was the police job for certain.
Done, the politeness was over. Between questions if I knew what was an enquiry and that the newspapers lied, it came to a point in which I was a “fool” and soon I was a trash and God knows what else. Then I confess that I was sick and tired of this and started to argue.
Was I wrong? Maybe, but I am not meek and mild and it took a while to get mad. It was insane arguing with him, disconnect arguments, a blind anger with no sense. When he scold me for the first time I asked if had ofended him or if he knew me to say that kind of thing. He said I was ‘petista’ and that I was photographing for free. I told him I was not, I was taking photos for an agency and then he asks me if want to photograph a birthday or a weeding for free.
Someone could understand it?
Then I started to joke and said he should play bingo or feed the pigeons instead of being there talking nonsense, but since I am not a bad person I also told him he should control himself especially in his age so he doesn’t suffer a heat attack (I was being ironic in case someone did not notice it.)
It would be funny if it was not tragic hearing an old man (but remember the mean people also get old) said:
This is a pacific and respectful protest. You bullshit!
If this is a respectful and pacific protest I would like to know in his point of view what is an agressive and disrespectful one. No, actually I don’t.
(Photo)Protester dressed up as ‘capitain america’ an another asking the American president, Barack Obama, for help.
By this moment some photographers coleagues came by to calm things down and also were scolded by the people around it.
The policemen nearby spend the day doing the same thing: just standing.
The screaming ceased, and according to some people who were there said I was ‘petista’. Funny thinking that I did not know what was it, even though I justified my vote in the last elections (but I would have voted in Dilma if had voted).
Today I felt the polarization so much talked about. You are either one thing or the other, and that is it. Some friends told me I made a mistake of arguing with the old guy. But sometimes it is hard to hear so many foolish things and hold our tongue.
I always thought that a photo jornalistic job is to show the reality and make changes, but besides it I think the main thing is not to loose the capacity of getting angry with the injustice.
I may have been wrong in the professional and journalistic point of view, but I don’t regret it, and would do everything again if needed.
Is Brazil so bad as it is? Yes, no doubts of that, but if those people are the only solution, then unfortunately the country has a sad future ahead.
And when I was leaving, I was poked on the shoulder by a lady who was there and who I have never seen before.She was there to meet with her boyfriend and she did not know me neither, but when I turned to her, she smiled and said:
- Congratulations for your courage facing them for what is right.
Did I made a mistake? Maybe I did, but you know what? I don’t care, there is no price for a peaceful mind for doing the right thing.
Or at least for what I believe it is.
I am a Brazilian photojournalist currently living in Santos, on the southern coast of São Paulo, Brazil.

Dear Periscope community and world,
We’d like to share an exciting update on Periscope’s growth, and provide some insight on how we measure our progress.
On August 2nd, we surpassed 10 million Periscope accounts. We launched Periscope just four months ago, on March 26, 2015. We would like to thank every single one of you for taking the time to use something that we’ve worked so hard to create. It means everything to us.
We’re even more stunned by the burgeoning usage of Periscope. Here’s the graph of our Time Watched since launching. We define Time Watched as the aggregate amount of time that people spend watching live broadcasts on iOS & Android. As of last week, we’re seeing over 40 years of video watched per day.
Time Watched is the metric we care about most, and what we’ll keep you updated on periodically. Here’s why Time Watched matters to us:
Optimizing for DAU/MAU doesn’t properly motivate our team to create a product that people love. Here’s why: if we were motivated to grow DAU, we’d be incentivized to invest in a host of conventional growth hacks, viral mechanics, and marketing to drive up downloads. This direction doesn’t necessarily lead to a better product, or lead to success for Periscopers. We hold ourselves accountable to Time Watched as an organizational measure because it reflects the kernel of our product, and our core values.
We hope this was helpful information to share. Most importantly, we want Periscopers to know and feel that they’re contributing to a growing ecosystem. And we want people to know that the Periscope team is measuring itself in a way that aligns with the value that the community gets from Periscope. We will continue to be transparent about what we think and why, and you should hold us to that. If there are other areas of our product or focus that we should be more transparent about, please tell us!
Thank you
Kayvon, Joe, and the Periscope team
Explore the world in real time through someone else's eyes
The core platform would not be too hard to agree on, as most people under 35 don’t disagree about things which to them are self-evident:
Gay marriage 👏 Climate change 🙀 Women’s bodies are, uh, their own 💃Military intervention for self-defense or protection only, no adventures 👊 Capitalism, duh, hugely pro 🙌 Believers/non-believers both welcome 😇
With these essentials and (any?) others agreed upon, we could spend our time debating — at least within the party — the things that are actually up for debate. It’s like my friend who told me the key to a successful marriage is to make sure you are aligned on kids, money, and sex. You’ll still fight, but you’ll spend your time fighting about “all the small things” because the big things are pre-agreed upon.
So why do this? Why establish a new party?
As of 2015, millennials (18–34) are now the largest group of human beings in the United States. 75. 3 million people. We just passed the boomers in size. And yet nearly all of our elected officials are boomers and none of them are millennials. It’s not surprising then that many millennials refer to the government as not truly representing them, or that we don’t “feel connected” to either of the current two parties. But if millennials are now the largest group of people in the country, and we are now all adults of voting age, isn’t it our job to represent ourselves?
Millennials can viably win seats in Congress now. So why not start by winning a couple seats now? If we are so good at the internet, shouldn’t we get started by using it to secure some of our own representation? And wouldn’t an amazing third party change everything about American politics if it could be a true swing vote? If the Tea Party can become influential, can’t we?
Here is one idea of how to get started:
We raise money for our candidates via crowdfunding. We mostly use YouTube and not TV, and as such we avoid a huge waste of campaign funds. We leverage social channels really well to get the message out, and go around the typical broadcast news infrastructure that invites so much money into politics. We will still need money, of course.
In races where we don’t run, which will of course be the vast majority to start, we make a recommendation to our party on who to vote for. We become influential in every election in the country. We are independent, and we recommend candidates on both sides. We welcome people of all ages to the party. Many people 35 years and above already identify with our values. They hunger for an alternative, and will be intrigued by our view of who to vote for. Our activism will give agency to our entire generation to vote, and if not satisfied by who to vote for, to run.
We are nation of entrepreneurs. If we are disappointed in the current offerings, isn’t it our job to create something that we are excited by? What was that quote about being the change you want to see in the world?
Our spirit animal could be a fox. 🐺
It’s easy to be cynical about American politics. It’s more important not to be. If we are not doing something about it, what is the purpose of our complaining?
If you think the Millennial Party is possibly a good idea, press recommend and hit retweet.
We’ll take your clicks as a vote that we should exist.
#millennialparty
I am @dunn. I love cilantro but understand the people that hate it. Founder and CEO @Bonobos Inc. www.bonobos.com and Founder @redswanventures www.redswan.vc.
Stationed on the West Coast of the United States, flanked by the blue hues of the Pacific Ocean, is a city that’s home to some of the greatest companies in the world. 700 miles south of that is San Francisco.
I moved to San Francisco two years ago to work for a startup called Padlet. I love it here. It’s like being in Hollywood, but with less-good-looking people. You have the celebs, you have the scandals, you have the media frenzy. My friends back home are full of questions:
“Is it fun?”
“You think I should look for a job there?”
“How far is Vegas?”
So, here is my experience. I hope it brings the readers closer to our little valley where we are building the future*.
My day begins with a 30 minute commute to work. I take the subway. The subway system in SF is called the BART, short for Bay Area Rapid* Transit. I love the BART because it is always full of surprises. E.g. yesterday, I was at the train station and bam! the train came on time.
Many drive to work. Driving in SF is like a theme park ride — the cars move bumper to bumper, the terrain is alpine, and the people around you have the temper of 10-year-olds.
Here is a pop-quiz — Which one’s an SF road and which one’s a roller-coaster?
Those with a death wish cycle to work. It is easy to spot a cyclist. If you see a guy with one side of his jeans rolled up to the shin, he is a moron; if you see a guy on a bicycle, he is a cyclist.
My office is in a neighbourhood called SoMa, short for South of Market. Many startup offices are in SoMa. The name is a tribute to the returns that investors in most of these startups will see in the long run.
SoMa is a vibrant area with a variety of establishments like Starbucks, local coffeeshops, grab-and-go coffee kiosks, and coffee trucks. It’s a shame I don’t drink coffee. It’s not that I don’t like the beverage. I just prefer not to consume anything at temperatures that would liquify my alimentary canal.
Why is coffee in SF so hot? Are people welding metal with it? The one time I asked a barista (phrased more politely, of course), I was reproached,
“Good coffee needs to be brewed at 200°F for full flavor.”
Odd! Good bread needs to be baked at 400°F but I don’t see any bakeries selling me searing dough bricks.
My company shares its office with two other companies — Buildzoom and Flexport. Judging from their names, Buildzoom manufactures high precision microscopes and Flexport ships fluorine to dentists in China. We all have a common investor named YC. YC is the venture capital arm of the YMCA. They invest in a lot of companies every year, many that seem outrageous on paper. E.g. they invested in a company called Swapbox, which, I believe, is cloud storage for swingers.
Now, you must be thinking — “Isn’t it stupid to judge a company by its name?” No. It’s not. Most companies in the Bay Area have obvious names:
Our office, like most modern startup offices, has an open floor plan. In an open floor plan, desks are organised like tables in a college cafeteria. However, instead of food and noise, you have computers, food, and noise.
The noise mandates that you wear headphones while working. Be careful, though. Your choice of headphones reveals a lot about your character:
An assorted collection of desks and chairs adorns our office. People reflected on their lack of fitness and concluded that the blame lay squarely on their choice of furniture. So some people have standing desks — desks so high that you have to stand to use them (or as short folks like myself like to call them, any other desks).
Markets are chockablock with these desk+gym hybrids — standing desks, treadmill desks, cycling desks. This is why I feel bullish about my swimming desk idea — a big water tank with an infinity pool and a computer bolted on one side. Noise cancelling scuba masks, snorkels, and fins come as standard equipment.
My favourite mutant furniture, however, is the “balancing ball chair”. This chair has an exercise ball in place of a seat cushion. Let me repeat that: in place of a seat cushion, this chair has, a giant ball. It’s a great way to lose weight*.

Outside of Chobani, you’d be hard pressed to find a place that talks more about culture than Silicon Valley. We want to create an environment where employees are happy, motivated, healthy, and productive.
Since people are happiest in the company of friends and family, we make sure you have work-life balance. This means you can work-from-home; on weekends. Notable exception is Yahoo. They let you home-from-work by allowing you to bring your infant to the office.
Of course, we realize that not everyone has friends. So we let you bring your dog to work. Our office has a dog too. His name is Moses. He’s sensitive to sunlight.
Unlimited vacation policy is another perk at most good companies. Travelling, after all, is an important part of the human experience. All we ask is that you don’t leave at a time when your presence is sacrosanct for the company. It can be hard to judge that at times so here is a handy table to help you decide when you can go on a vacation:
Most startups provide lunch. Given the wide array of dietary preferences people have in SF, it’s a tricky proposition. It is fairly common to have someone who is a vegetarian, a vegan, on gluten-free, on paleo, and on juice detox in an office of 3 people. Allow me to explain these diets:
Of course, we can’t talk about working in SF without actually talking about how we work.
First rule of working in Silicon Valley — keep your emails short. If the recipient finds them rude, he/she needs a lesson in productivity*. Here is a good email:
Ignore the novella length signature; the brevity rule doesn’t apply to it. Put anything there — legalese, a call to save trees, a motivational quote. Not many people know that Twitter started out as an email service for Silicon Valley professionals but didn’t catch on because it allowed way too many characters.
We don’t have meetings; meetings are to startups what kryptonite is to Spiderman — out of place. So we have all-hands*, one-on-ones, stand-ups, and huddles. Same goes for calls — we don’t make phonecalls. We sync-up, touch-base, or simply, connect. Make sure you set up the right one, or you may give people the impression that you are wasting their vocabulary.
The most sacred psalm of the startup-bible, though, is —
This is why our first hire was a lousy mountain climber.
One last thing — the startup life does not stop at work; it affects your personal life too. E.g., if you work at a startup in San Francisco, you are like the guy selling plastic souvenirs at the Eiffel tower. Everyone at the Eiffel tower is selling plastic souvenirs. So you find yourself having the same conversations with similar people. Here is an example:
Alex: I have a startup. We are Yelp for contractors.Ben: I have a startup too. We are contractors for Yelp.[Pause]Together: Business model … yada yada yada Paul Graham … Series A … lorem ipsum Google sucks.
This, in itself, is not a problem; I enjoy these conversations. The problem is that they often render you incapable of any other forms of communication. E.g.:
Girlfriend’s dad: Great weather today.Ben: Yeah. It’s beautiful.[Pause][Longer pause]Ben: So I see you use an iPhone. Android sucks, huh?
Famous investor Marc Andreessen says:
That explains why software is so shitty. Many things in the world — like Kanye, curling, and kale — are hard to digest.
Still, technology is changing the way we live, the way we love, the way we work. And a lot of that technology is being built here in San Francisco.
If this sounds exciting, come on board; Padlet is hiring, and so are a bazillion other startups. If you don’t live here and can’t relocate, don’t worry; many startups hire remotely. (Reddit isn’t anymore, FYI.)
If you are already a part of this world, why did you just waste 8 minutes? Why aren’t you working? Stop procrastinating and go ship stuff!
Founder, Padlet.
Words etc from the wonderful people at Padlet.

It has been nearly a decade since I last worked for you. I was your production assistant. I picked up your lunch. I ran your errands. I even once spilled black coffee on your white rug. In my time with you I rode rollercoasters, wore a Baby Bjorn mounted hidden camera, discovered paparazzi, laughed my ass off, was brought to tears hearing Annie Lennox warm up, and toured a post Katrina New Orleans. In the years that I worked at The Ellen DeGeneres Show I discovered Los Angeles, met my partner of a decade, and came out of the closet to my parents. The impact this time in my life had on who I am need not be underestimated. Through you, I learned the importance of being my most authentic self. I learned if I lived my truth, society will find a way to embrace me. All of me.
My life has changed immensely since I left my job at The Ellen DeGeneres Show. You see, I had a life changing day a little over 3 years ago. A line in the sand, if you will. A moment. I woke up. Fell out of bed. And into the hospital. When I got out, I needed a cane and some eyeglasses to navigate my newly disabled world.
I do not wish chronic illness on my worst frienemy. My illness and my disability left me scarred and traumatized. It wasn’t a graceful process. But amazingly enough, it is probably best thing that’s ever happened to me. Along with my Idiopathic Neuropathy diagnosis came the gift of advocacy. I now have a point of view. A change I wish to see in the world. A deep and insatiable desire to create inclusion in the highly exclusive world of fashion. I call my idea ‘Inclusive Retail’. I live, eat and breathe Inclusive Retail every moment of every day (seriously, just ask my Facebook friends). I do not believe inclusion for ‘other’ bodies will be achieved until ‘other’ bodies are seen as consumers. Who are marketed to. And designed for. Over the weekend, ol’ bossy pants suddenly popped up in my new world. And it’s a bit startling. I’m not so sure how to proceed.
So I’m going to do what I have learned to do with my doctors, and I’m just going to be honest about the discomfort of it. People have recently started asking if I have reached out, asking you to sell an inclusive product in your new ED by Ellen line. And I have said that I had not. Reaching out would force me to look back at a life I no longer recognize as my own. Plus, after a long and ultimately unsuccessful two year pursuit of J. Crew, I didn’t want to be let down yet again. But upon discovering your new model Kayla, a 9 year old with Down syndrome, I can’t help but think… what if?
Do you know how difficult it is for children and adults with Down syndrome to find garments that fit? Would you let me introduce you to two companies; Downs Design Dreams and Runway of Dreams? Would you consider collaborating with them, ultimately creating a beautiful ED by Ellen product for Kayla and her peers? Did you know you could be the first? You could be the first mainstream fashion brand to make a product for someone with a disability. You could be that person.

Downs Design Dreams and Runway of Dreams could help you make a garment for someone with Down syndrome. They are filling the gap created by Gap and other global retailers. Right now, these bodies have no options. The bodies your ED by Ellen line sees as beautiful. The bodies that your ED by Ellen line aims to empower. Features of pants for a Down syndrome body include high back rises, a tapered knee for short femurs, extra room in thighs and bottom, and the most important… sensory & motor skill friendly features (no buttons, zipper or tags, soft stretchy material and a full elastic waistband). Imagine how cute a pair of ED by Ellen joggers for children with Down syndrome could be.
Karen Bowersox, the founder of Downs Designs Dreams created a special feature for her jeans, something so thoughtful that I’d prefer to let her explain:
The way I see it, if you make one product, your influence might urge the next company to make another product. And through this new trend, instead of all the products being made by one brand, every brand could carry one or a few products. Think of the possibilities. Imagine some Levis Wheelchair Jeans. And a cane at J. Crew. And a Beats by Dre hearing aid. And a wheelchair by BMW (I mean, Jeep makes a stroller). The list goes on and on. And the entire trend could be traced back to you and that one product. That you made for your adorable 9 year old model Kayla.
Mindy Scheier of Runway of Dreams thinks it’s great that you’re featuring a model with a disability. But she won’t find it relevant until the insides match the outsides. Runway of Dreams is a non-profit organization that works with mainstream brands and retailers to create adaptable clothing. Imagine a Runway of Dreams for ED by Ellen line where the clothing fits and the child can dress his or herself.
Inclusive Retail feels so obvious to me. Why aren’t products for ‘other’ bodies a natural order of the world? Why would society exclude people who just want to be included? I mean, wasn’t it you that said “I’m a person with compassion. I care passionately about equal rights. I care about human rights”? Please help me right this wrong.
So Ellen, if it is you, if you are the person who will help me bring Inclusive Retail to life, I pre-wrote a Tweet for you. “Dear @elizejackson, Yes. I am that person. #InclusiveRetail”
Thanks and Best,
Liz Jackson, The Girl with the Purple Cane

If you’re not Ellen but you read this letter and agree, will you please click on the little heart button below. Also, will you consider sharing on Facebook and Twitter? I need your help. We ‘others’ need your help. Thank you.
I write about the intersection of disability and style. I love beautiful products.
Share your story. Express yourself. All submissions welcome. thegirlwiththepurplecane [at] gmail

One of the themes we’re exploring at the Next:Economy summit is the way that networks trump traditional forms of corporate organization, and how they are changing traditional ways of managing that organization. Uber and Airbnb are textbook examples of this trend. Uber has ambitious plans to manage hundreds of thousands — eventually even millions — of independent drivers with a small core of employees building a technology platform that manages those workers. Airbnb is on track to have more rooms on offer than large hotel chains, with under a thousand employees.
Esko Kilpi beautifully described the power of networks in an essay on Medium, “The Future of Firms,” reflecting on economist Ronald Coase’s theory of 20th century business organization. He wrote:
Of course, networks have always been a part of business. An automaker is not made up of just its industrial workers and its managers, but also of its network of parts suppliers and auto dealerships and ad agencies. Even its shareholders are a network that supports its capital needs. Similarly, large retailers are aggregation points for a network of suppliers, logistics companies, and other suppliers. Fast food vendors like McDonalds and Subway aggregate a network of franchisees. The entire film and TV industry consists of a small core of full time workers and a large network of temporary on-demand workers. This is also true of publishing and other media companies. My own company, O’Reilly Media, publishes books, puts on events, and delivers online learning with a full-time staff of five hundred and an extended family of tens of thousands of contributors — authors, conference presenters, technology advisers, and other partners.
But the Internet takes the networked firm to a new level. Google, the company that ended up as the prime gateway to the World Wide Web, provides access to a universe of content that it doesn’t own yet has become the largest media company in the world. 13–24 years olds already watch more video on YouTube, much of it user-contributed, than they watch on television. And Amazon just surpassed WalMart as the world’s most valuable retailer by offering virtually unlimited selection, including marketplace items from ordinary individuals and small businesses.
On-demand companies like Uber and Airbnb are only the latest development in an ongoing transformation of business by the Internet. In addition to discussing these latest entrants, we’ll take a look at what we learn from the evolution of Internet e-commerce and content marketplaces. Then we’ll try to tease out some best practices of Internet-era platforms and marketplaces.
Consider the evolution of the retail marketplace as exemplified first by chain stores, and then by Internet retailers like Amazon, which have largely replaced a network of small local businesses that delivered goods through retail storefronts. Cost efficiencies led to lower prices and greater selection, drawing more consumers, which in turn gave more purchasing power to larger retailers, allowing them to lower prices further and to crush rivals in a self-reinforcing cycle. National marketing of these advantages led to the rise of familiar chains.
But the Internet added even more leverage, reducing the need to invest in real estate, reaching customers who were not physically close to prime locations, and building in new habits of customer loyalty and instant gratification. With delivery now same day in many locations, anything you need is only a few clicks away.
Internet retailers like Amazon were also able to offer even larger selections of products, aggregating offerings not just from a carefully chosen network of suppliers, but opening up self-service marketplaces in which anyone can offer products. Years ago, Clay Shirky described the move from “filter, then publish” to “publish, then filter” as one of the key advantages brought by the Internet to publishing, but the lesson applies to virtually every Internet marketplace. It is fundamentally an open-ended network in which filtering and curation (otherwise known as “management”) happens largely after the fact.
But that’s not all. While large physical retailers cut costs by eliminating knowledgeable workers, using lower prices and greater selection to hedge against worse customer service (compare an old time hardware store with a chain like Home Depot or Lowe’s), online retailers did not make these same tradeoffs. Instead of eliminating knowledgeable workers, they replaced them with software.
Even though there are several orders of magnitude more products than in physical stores, you don’t need a salesperson to help you find the right product on Amazon — a search engine helps you find it. You don’t need a salesperson to help you understand which product is the best — Amazon has built software that lets customers rate the products and write reviews to tell you which are best, and then feeds that reputation information into their search engine so that the best products naturally come out on top. You don’t need a cashier to help you check out — software lets you do that yourself.


Request an invitation to the Next:Economy Summit to learn more about the evolution of 21st century business.

One way to think about the new generation of on-demand companies, such as Uber, Lyft, and Airbnb, is that they are networked platforms for physical world services, which are bringing fragmented industries into the 21st century in the same way that ecommerce has transformed retail.
Let’s start by taking a closer look at the industry in which Uber and Lyft operate.
The coordination costs of the taxicab business have generally kept it local. According to the Taxicab, Limousine and ParaTransit Association, the US taxi industry consists of approximately 6,300 companies operating 171,000 taxicabs and other vehicles. More than 80% of these are small companies operating anywhere between one and 50 taxis. Only 6% of these companies have more than 100 taxicabs. Only in the largest of these companies do multiple drivers use the same taxicab, with regular shifts. 85% of taxi and limousine drivers are independent contractors. In many cases, the taxi driver pays a rental fee (typically $120/$130 per day) to the owner of the cab (who in turn pays a dispatch and branding fee to the branded dispatch service) and keeps what he or she makes after paying that daily cost. The total number of cabs is limited by government-granted licenses, sometimes called medallions.
When you as a customer see a branded taxicab, you are seeing the brand not of the medallion owner (who may be a small business of as little as a single cab) but of the dispatch company. Depending on the size of the city, that brand may be sublicensed to dozens or even hundreds of smaller companies. This fragmented industry provides work not just for drivers but for managers, dispatchers, maintenance workers, and bookkeepers. The TLPA estimates that the industry employs a total of 350,000 people, which works out to approximately two jobs per taxicab. Since relatively few taxicabs are “double shifted” (these are often in the largest, densest locations, where it makes sense for the companies to own the cab and hire the driver as a full time employee), that suggests that half of those employed in the industry are in secondary support roles. These are the jobs that are being replaced by the efficient new platforms. Functions like auto maintenance still have to be performed, so those jobs remain. Jobs that are lost to automation are equivalent to the kinds of losses that came to bank tellers and their managers with the introduction of the ATM.
Technology is leading to a fundamental restructuring of the taxi and limousine industry from one of a network of small firms to a network of individuals, replacing many middlemen in the taxi business with software, using the freed up resources to put more drivers on the road.
Uber and Lyft use algorithms, GPS, and smartphone apps to coordinate driver and passenger. The extraordinary soon becomes commonplace, so we forget how our first ride was a magical user experience. That magic can lead us to overlook the fact that, at bottom, Uber and Lyft provide dispatch and branding services much like existing taxi companies, only more efficiently. And like the existing taxi industry, they essentially subcontract the job of transport — except in this case, they subcontract to individuals rather than to smaller businesses, and take a percentage of the revenue rather than charging a daily rental fee for the use of a branded taxicab.
These firms use technology to eliminate the jobs of what used to be an enormous hierarchy of managers (or a hierarchy of individual firms acting as suppliers), replacing them with a relatively flat network managed by algorithms, network-based reputation systems, and marketplace dynamics. These firms also rely on their network of customers to police the quality of their service. Lyft even uses its network of top-rated drivers to onboard new drivers, outsourcing what once was a crucial function of management.
It’s useful to call out some specific features of the new model.

In my initial post, The WTF Economy, I wrote:
It would have lacked the immediate punch, but I could also have written:
The reason: Subway owns no restaurants, while McDonalds owns 20% of its restaurants, with the remaining 80% franchised. (Employment across both owned and franchised restaurants at McDonalds is over 1.9 million.)
In many ways, Uber and Airbnb represent a 21st century update of the franchising model. In franchising, the parent company brands and markets the product, sets standards for producing it, and charges a licensing fee and receives a percentage of revenue from each of its franchisees.
The difference is that technology radically lowers the barriers to being a franchisee. In many ways, you can call the modern trend “the franchise of one.” The smallest unit of franchising in the past was a small business, with all the overhead that implies: real estate, equipment, uniforms, employees (including managers), and so on. Today, the franchise can be a single individual, and that individual can work only part time, so it’s really “the franchise of one or even less!”
Branding and advertising are much less necessary because the app itself becomes a customer habit that delivers business. There are little or no capital requirements, workers can schedule their own time, and turn their own under-utilized personal assets (a car, a house, or other equipment) into business assets. In her book Peers Inc, Robin Chase refers to this as “excess capacity.”
This is exactly the dynamic that Kilpi references when he describes how the radically lower transaction costs of networks give them advantage over traditional firms.
Though the details of the taxi industry differ from the hotel industry, the same dynamic applies to another great success story of the On-demand economy, Airbnb. Like Uber and Lyft, Airbnb uses technology to make excess capacity available in locations that were otherwise extremely poorly served. Even in great cities, hotels are available only in some neighborhoods, and completely unavailable in others. By contrast, Airbnbs can be found anywhere that there is demand.
A small personal anecdote: I recently got married in Fort Tryon Park in New York City, near the Cloisters. The nearest hotel is 1.5 miles away, and the closest “nice” hotel 3.8 miles, yet my fiance and I were able to walk to our wedding site from a beautiful, comfortable Airbnb facing the park and just 5 minutes away. Many of our guests stayed locally as well.
As with Uber and Lyft, we see that the granular nature of supply (the franchise of one, or even less than one) makes it easy for more natural market mechanisms to come into play. People can offer a resource that they already own, testing the market to see if there is demand and at what price. If they are satisfied with the transaction, they can continue to offer that resource. More supply will come on stream to match demand in highly desirable locations.
There are some interesting lessons, though, about the evolution of the supply network. While Airbnb began as a network of properties offered solely by individuals, already 40% of Airbnb properties are now offered by hosts who own more than one property. There are also anecdotal reports that small companies owning multiple cars are starting to be part of the Uber network.
The evolution of Airbnb’s network echoes the evolution of the World Wide Web and the media platform businesses that grew up on it, such as Yahoo, Google, YouTube, and Facebook.
The World Wide Web began as a peer-to-peer network of individuals who were both providing and consuming content. Yet twenty five years on, the World Wide Web is dominated by the media presence of large companies, though there is still plenty of room for individuals, mid-sized companies, and aggregators of smaller companies and individuals. While the platform itself began in decentralized fashion, its growth in complexity led to increasing centralization of power. Everyone started out with an equal chance at visibility, but over time, mechanisms were invented to navigate the complexity: first directories, then search engines.
Eventually, there grew up a rich ecosystem of intermediaries, including, at the top of the food chain, first Yahoo! then Google and their various competitors, but also content aggregators of various sizes and types, such as the Huffington Post and Buzzfeed, as well as various companies, from Search Engine Optimizers to advertising firms like DoubleClick and Aquantive and content delivery firms like Akamai and Fastly, who help other firms optimize their performance in the marketplace.
Later media networks such as YouTube, Facebook, and the Apple App Store bypassed this evolution and began as centralized portals, but even there, you see some of the same elements. In each case, the marketplace was at first supplied by small individual contributors, but eventually, larger players — companies, brands, and superstars — come to dominate.
In addition, the central player begins by feeding its network of suppliers, but eventually begins to compete with it. In its early years, Google provided no content of its own, simply sending customers off to the best independent websites. But over time, more and more types of content are offered directly by Google. Amazon began simply as a marketplace for publishers; eventually, they became a publisher. Over time, as networks reach monopoly or near-monopoly status, they must wrestle with the issue of how to create more value than they capture — how much value to take out of the ecosystem, versus how much they must leave for other players in order for the marketplace to continue to thrive.
I believe we will see some of these same dynamics play out in the new networked platforms for physical world services, such as Uber, Lyft, and Airbnb. Successful individuals build small companies, and some of the small companies turn into big ones. Eventually, existing companies join the platform. By this logic, I expect to see large hotel chains offering rooms on Airbnb, and existing taxi companies affiliating with Uber and Lyft. To optimize their success, these platforms will need to make it possible for many kinds of participants in the marketplace to succeed.

Here are some key lessons for companies wanting to emulate the success of Internet marketplaces like Amazon, Google, Uber, and Airbnb:
Join the discussion. What do you think are the best practices of networked businesses? What principles will drive the success of these businesses in the future? What should they watch out for?
Founder and CEO, O'Reilly Media. Watching the alpha geeks, sharing their stories, helping the future unfold.
How work, business and society face massive, technology-driven change. Curated by Tim O’Reilly, Steven Levy and Lauren Smiley, in conjunction with the Next: Economy Summit coming to San Francisco in November.
A tale of differing visions
So this is it. Here we are. The community is divided and Bitcoin is forking: both the software and, perhaps, the block chain too. The two sides of the split are Bitcoin Core and a slight variant of the same program, called Bitcoin XT. As of August 15th, there is now a full release available.
Such a fork has never happened before. I want to explain things from the perspective of the Bitcoin XT developers: let it not be said there was insufficient communication.
Bitcoin forking is a topic that may interest many people, so this article is meant for a general audience. It doesn’t assume previous knowledge of the debate.
The founding vision for Bitcoin was carefully laid out by Satoshi, and has always been crystal clear. This dispute is about growth. In 2008 he responded to the first question ever asked about Bitcoin’s design with a simple statement:
He was in many ways more blasé about scaling Bitcoin up than any of us have ever been. He planned for Bitcoin to become popular right from the start, and knew that success would change how people used his system. In 2010 he said this:
In 2011 I fleshed out Satoshi’s scaling intuitions with a series of calculations: what if Bitcoin became so popular it replaced VISA completely? The answer was that his plan is credible — you’d never need more than a single computer, even with such a large amount of traffic. I also implemented the mode he talked about, as he left before finishing the work.
Satoshi’s plan brought us all together. It changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of us across the globe. Some of us quit our jobs, others devoted their spare time to the project, still others founded companies and even moved across the world. It’s the idea of ordinary people paying each other via a block chain that created and united this global community.
That’s the vision I signed up for. That’s the vision Gavin Andresen signed up for. That’s the vision so many developers and startup founders and evangelists and users around the world signed up for.
That vision is now in jeopardy. In recent months it’s become clear that a small group of people have a radically different plan for Bitcoin. These people have never really been comfortable with Satoshi’s intentions because they fear success — what if technology never improved, what if people couldn’t run Bitcoin on their home computers any more? Would that not somehow make Bitcoin less peer-to-peer, and more like banking? What if people start to rely on Bitcoin even though it’s imperfect?
So now Satoshi is gone they want to make drastic changes — networks of payment routing hubs, sharp rises in fees, ending support for mobile P2P wallets, giving up on unconfirmed transactions, and many other things that never appeared in any of our project’s founding documents.
The so-called “Lightning network” that is being pushed as an alternative to Satoshi’s design does not exist. The paper describing it was only published earlier this year. If implemented, it would represent a vast departure from the Bitcoin we all know and love. To pick just one difference amongst many, Bitcoin addresses wouldn’t work. What they’d be replaced with has not been worked out (because nobody knows). There are many other surprising gotchas, which I published an article about. It’s deeply unclear that whatever is finally produced would be better than the Bitcoin we have now.
In theory, none of this should be a problem. The Lightning Network builds on top of the block chain but needs only fairly trivial upgrades to it for best functioning. So people who would like to explore this direction are free to do so. If what they built worked better than plain vanilla Bitcoin then the market should prefer payments being made that way, and if so … fair play to them! Bitcoin’s current design is unlikely to be the last word in making payments. It’s reasonable to think that one day it will be outcompeted or augmented by something else.
But the system we have today works. It has an ecosystem, it has developers. It has exchanges and wallets and people buying and selling and ATMs and books and apps and conferences and a large base of people who have learned how it works.
Would people decide to migrate to a radically different system, if given a free choice?
We don’t know, and the people pushing for these things don’t want to let the market decide. This is what’s gone wrong.
A long time ago, Satoshi put in place a temporary kludge: he limited the size of each block to one megabyte. He did this in order to keep the block chain small in the early days, until what we now call SPV wallets were built (‘client only mode’). As seen in the quote above, it was never meant to be permanent and he talked about phasing it out when the time came. In the end it wasn’t needed — I wrote the first SPV implementation in 2011 and with my esteemed colleague Andreas Schildbach, together we built the first and still most popular Android wallet. Since then SPV wallets have been made for every platform. So Satoshi’s reason for the temporary limit has been resolved a long time ago.
As Bitcoin has grown, so have the blocks. Reasonable traffic projections indicate that as Bitcoin spreads via word of mouth, we will reach the limit of the current system some time next year, or by 2017 at the absolute latest. And another bubble or press cycle could push us over the limit before even that. The result might not be pretty.
So it is now time to raise the limit, or remove it entirely. That was always the plan. This is where the problem starts: those who don’t want to see Bitcoin scale up as Satoshi intended have decided to stall the process of doing so. They see a golden, one-time opportunity to forcibly divert Bitcoin from its intended path and onto a wildly different technical trajectory. They don’t know exactly what the alternative design will be, and certainly haven’t built it — but that doesn’t matter. They think that by blocking the blockchain’s growth they can “incentivise” (i.e. force) the Bitcoin community to switch to something different, something more in line with their personal technical tastes.
So far I have not elaborated much on these people’s arguments, or who they are. I thought long and hard about naming names in this article, but in the end it seemed unproductive. Those who care enough to follow this drama already know, and those who don’t wouldn’t recognise the people involved anyway.
Suffice it to say they are a handful of people who either have commit access to the Bitcoin Core source repository, work for people who do, people who have been persuaded by their arguments, and a few others who arrived at similar conclusions on their own.
So let us instead discuss those arguments. There have been many. As each one came up, Gavin and myself have written articles analysing them and rebutting them. Sometimes the answers were common sense, other times they were deeper and required more work, like doing network simulations.
The best repository to learn about these arguments is Gavin’s blog. I wish I could link you to a similar collection of rebuttal’s to Gavin’s writings, but there isn’t one.
To summarise a long and exhausting debate, the objections fall into a few different groups:
There are others: if your favourite objection isn’t listed above, go read Gavin’s blog to find it.
The first point might be true one day — it’s tough to compare Bitcoin to theoretical systems which exist only on paper. But nobody who looked at any alternative designs on the table think they they could be implemented within the 12 months we probably have before the Bitcoin network runs out of capacity (example, see last paragraph, another example) ….. even assuming they were better. It is an example of the Nirvana Fallacy:
The second objection is too vague to answer; there are credible reasons to believe that a full upgrade of every Bitcoin node might take a year, and actually running out of capacity would cause serious disruption. We should really have started before now. There are two people on the bitcoin-development mailing list with professional capacity planning experience and both think the process must start right now. Demanding it be delayed until some unspecified future date is not sound engineering.
The final point is the most troublesome and heated by far. It is based in two assumptions:
It would be great if Bitcoin was so compelling that demand for it was infinite: I could just stop improving my software and wait for the rising price to make me rich. Back here in reality Bitcoin exists in a competitive marketplace. Growth is not a god-given right. Every user we win takes effort, every person persuaded takes time. Bitcoin is currently growing, but only at a gentle pace. I wish I could confidently say the cost of running a full Bitcoin node will go up in future: that would imply our success is outstripping the combined efforts of the entire hardware industry. That industry is astonishing: in 2007 the iPhone launched to the world, it cost $500. Just 7 years later the Forme P9 smartphone launched for $30. It matches every feature the iPhone had and then goes significantly beyond.
With the second assumption, we reach the hard core of this debate: Should Bitcoin grow, even if the network changes its structure as a result?
The founder of the project gave a clear answer to this question — YES
We have been working on this plan ever since. To try and change that answer to “no” not only violates the Bitcoin social contract, but goes against the wishes of many, many people in the Bitcoin community.
Those who really believe that an über-niche currency is better should create an alt coin with a limited size block chain as part of the founding vision. Not try and convert Bitcoin into one by exploiting the casual nature of an old, quick kludge.
Why can this dispute not be resolved in some more civilised manner than an outright split?
Put simply, the decision making process in Bitcoin Core has broken.
In theory, like almost all open source projects, Core has a “maintainer”. The job of a maintainer is to shepherd the project and make decisions about what goes in and what doesn’t. The maintainer is the boss. A good maintainer gathers feedback, weighs arguments and then makes decisions. But in the case of Bitcoin Core the block size debate has been allowed to drag on for years.
The problem is that any change, no matter how obvious, can be nixed entirely if it becomes “controversial”, meaning another person with commit access objects. As there are five committers and many other non-committers who can also make changes “controversial” this is a recipe for deadlock. The fact that the block size was never meant to be permanent has ceased to matter: the fact that removing it is debated, is, by itself, enough to ensure it will not happen. Like a committee with no chairman, the meeting never ends. To quote the committer who has pushed hardest for stasis, “Bitcoin needs a leader like a fish needs a bicycle”.
Compounding this problem is an absolute disinterest in listening to the wider community.
Raising the block size is supported by, amongst others:
This list is far from complete. Many other key players in the ecosystem haven’t commented publicly, but have expressed support to Gavin and myself in private.
So you can see that this isn’t some strange campaign of conquest by Gavin and myself. If we weren’t preparing for this change, others would.
How did those pushing for 1mb blocks respond to all these people?
They didn’t, because they never asked for their views at all. To quote one influential member of the Bitcoin Core community:
Companies represent many of Bitcoin’s most passionate, devoted and technical people. They provide critical infrastructure. Yet the views of the people who build them are considered “misleading to the sense of consensus”.
What about wallet developers? They are the people most exposed to the needs of day to day users.
Never asked. When they spoke up anyway, it made no difference; their views are considered irrelevant.
That isn’t surprising: this group measures the relevance of someone’s opinions by how many commits to Core they have. It’s become clearer and clearer that the “consensus” that’s so often talked about in the Bitcoin Core community really means the views of a tiny handful of people, regardless of what anyone else in the wider community might think, how much work they have done, or how many users their products have.
Put another way, “developer consensus” is marketing, wool pulled over the eyes of Bitcoin users to blind them from the truth: just two or three people acting in concert can break Bitcoin in whatever way they see fit.
Do they even recognise that a large number of critical people disagree? No. Quoting one of the committers again:
This can only be true if you classify vast numbers of the engineers building the Bitcoin ecosystem as “non technical”.
Clearly, there is a serious problem here. Communication has broken down, both sides feel they are vigorously defending decentralisation and the One True Bitcoin Vision. The community is divided.
This leaves one last mechanism for resolving the dispute. We can make a modified version of the software, and put it to a vote of miners via the usual chain fork logic used for upgrades. If a majority upgrade to the new version and produce a larger than 1mb block, the minority would reject it and be put onto a parallel block chain. To get back in sync with the rest of the network they would then have to adopt the fork, clearly resolving the system in favour. If the majority never upgrade, the fork would never happen and the 1mb limit would be hit.
It would seem like all participants should support such a move: clearly, consensus cannot be reached via the usual mechanisms and thus putting it to something resembling a vote should look like a good way to make progress.
Here we come to the last and most fatal source of disagreement.
Of the 5 Bitcoin Core committers, Gavin and Jeff support a fork but the other three appear to believe that any controversial hard fork is unthinkable, madness, reckless, should never ever happen and doing it would seriously harm Bitcoin, perhaps even fatally. If any of them are in favour of resolving via a fork, I haven’t seen them express that anywhere.
We strongly disagree with this assessment. We don’t think the sky will fall if the chain forks. We think people on the small-blocks side of the chain will upgrade and continue on the bigger-blocks side. There will be plenty of time for them to know about the change and prepare. But of course, this has made no difference to the belief of the Bitcoin Core developers who dislike hard forks. They are steadfastly against.
In short, they believe that the only mechanism that Bitcoin has to keep them in check should never be used.
I don’t think they really mean it to come across this way, but it does. Their view is that there shouldn’t be any alternative to their decisions. That anything they object to, for whatever reason, is killed forever … and that Bitcoin is thus their toy to do with as they please.
This state of affairs cannot go on. The Bitcoin Core project has shown it cannot reform and so it must be abandoned.
That is why Bitcoin has forked.
We hope everyone understands.
Open minded reading
Amazon isn’t the only company burning out their employees with unsustainable expectations. Let’s break the cycle.
Update: Want to achieve better work-life balance within your own team? Check out “Less is more: leading your team to better results through work-life balance” on the Asana blog.
— — —
Last week, I spoke to an ambitious group of high school students at SPARC in Berkeley. Several of them asked me about things I wish I had done or learned earlier in life, or regrets I had from earlier in my career. Again and again, I came back to the idea that I wish I had lived my life differently.
I wish I had slept more hours, and exercised regularly. I wish I had made better decisions about what to eat or drink — at times I consumed more soda and energy drinks than water. I wish I had made more time for other experiences that helped me grow incredibly quickly once I gave them a chance.
You might think: but if you had prioritized those things, wouldn’t your contributions have been reduced? Would Facebook have been less successful?
Actually, I believe I would have been more effective: a better leader and a more focused employee. I would have had fewer panic attacks, and acute health problems — like throwing out my back regularly in my early 20s. I would have picked fewer petty fights with my peers in the organization, because I would have been generally more centered and self-reflective. I would have been less frustrated and resentful when things went wrong, and required me to put in even more hours to deal with a local crisis. In short, I would have had more energy and spent it in smarter ways… AND I would have been happier. That’s why this is a true regret for me: I don’t feel like I chose between two worthy outcomes. No, I made a foolish sacrifice on both sides.
This week, the tech industry has been passionately debating a recent New York Times article about Amazon’s intense work culture. Many found the article one-sided, using dramatic anecdotes to caricature a culture built around passion and intensity, while some insiders have risen to publicly defend the company. However, as far as I can tell, most people do not contest that the culture is intense and people do work really hard at Amazon. Fundamentally, this is a familiar part of tech culture: at high performing companies, employees work extremely hard, to an extent that is unsustainable for most people.
But it doesn’t have to be this way.
Many people believe that weekends and the 40-hour workweek are some sort of great compromise between capitalism and hedonism, but that’s not historically accurate. They are actually the carefully considered outcome of profit-maximizing research by Henry Ford in the early part of the 20th century. He discovered that you could actually get more output out of people by having them work fewer days and fewer hours. Since then, other researchers have continued to study this phenomenon, including in more modern industries like game development.
The research is clear: beyond ~40–50 hours per week, the marginal returns from additional work decrease rapidly and quickly become negative. We have also demonstrated that though you can get more output for a few weeks during “crunch time” you still ultimately pay for it later when people inevitably need to recover. If you try to sustain crunch time for longer than that, you are merely creating the illusion of increased velocity. This is true at multiple levels of abstraction: the hours worked per week, the number of consecutive minutes of focus vs. rest time in a given session, and the amount of vacation days you take in a year.
Rest matters.
So it is with deep sadness that I observe the current culture of intensity in the tech industry. My intellectual conclusion is that these companies are both destroying the personal lives of their employees and getting nothing in return. A candidate recently deciding between Asana and another fast growing company told me that the other team starts their dinners at 830pm to encourage people to stay late (he’s starting here in a few weeks). I also hear young developers frequently brag about “48 hour” coding sprints. This kind of attitude not only hurts young workers who are willing to “step up” to the expectation, but facilitates ageism and sexism by indirectly discriminating against people who cannot maintain that kind of schedule.
Why are companies doing this? It must be some combination of 1/ not knowing the research 2/ believing the research is somehow flawed or doesn’t apply to them (they’re wrong) or 3/ understanding that many people see these cultural artifacts as a signal about the intensity and passion of the team. I believe it is a combination of all three factors, and the third one resonates particularly strongly with me. We’ve worked hard to build a culture at Asana where people don’t work too hard, but we sometimes have candidates tell us they are worried that means we don’t move fast enough, or have enough urgency. I’m not sure what I would do if I thought these values were actually in conflict, but fortunately they are not. We get to encourage a healthy work-life balance in the cold, hard pursuit of profit. We are maximizing our velocity and our happiness at the same time.
As an industry, we are falling short of our potential. We could be accomplishing more, and we could be providing a better life for all of the people who work in technology. If you’re going to devote the best years of your life to work, do so intentionally. You can do great things AND live your life well. You can have it all, and science says you should.
Note: I’ve written this from the perspective of the tech industry, since that’s my perspective, but the pattern definitely exists prominently in other industries, and in companies across all industries.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
“The best things we know and love started as tiny things.” — Joel Gascoigne
Buffer’s CEO, Joel, wrote a post not too long ago about the importance of starting small with new projects. He makes some great points about how easy it is to see the finished product of someone else’s hard work and forget about how long it took them to get to that point:
“It’s difficult to understand how the evolutionary process of products and brands contributes and is vital to what they are today.”
Joel goes on to say that success is more likely when we execute on small projects. Start small and let them grow, essentially.
To give us a little insight into just how simple some of the today’s juggernaut web companies were when they started out, I thought it would be fun to do some time traveling in the Wayback Machine. Design can’t tell us everything about what’s happening behind the scenes at a company, but it’s one way to visualize the progress of a product or service over time. Plus, each of these companies’ founders have some useful advice on why they started small and how it helped them grow into the successes they are today.
So let’s take a look at how these major companies evolved from their humble beginnings:

“I’m here to build something for the long-term. Anything else is a distraction.” — Mark Zuckerberg
Zuckerberg’s vision for Facebook is a big one: to make the world more socially connected. Although he started with a small solution to connect college students, Facebook has grown into one of the biggest, most popular social networks alive today, and continues to grow because he’s committed to building out the company over time:
“I know it sounds corny, but I’d love to improve people’s lives, especially socially… Making the world more open is not an overnight thing. It’s a ten-to-fifteen-year thing.”
Today, Facebook is bigger and more complicated than it was to start with, but Zuckerberg stays committed to his vision:
“A lot of founding principles of Facebook are that if people have access to more information and are more connected, it will make the world better; people will have more understanding, more empathy. That’s the guiding principle for me. On hard days, I really just step back, and that’s the thing that keeps me going.”


“When Sergey and I founded Google, we hoped, but did not expect, it would reach its current size and influence. Our intense and enduring interest was to objectively help people find information efficiently.” — Larry Page
Google’s design has remained sparse over the years, even as the company has expanded and added more services like Maps, YouTube, Gmail and Drive. When you hit Google.com today, it’s still clear what one thing Google is focused on: finding information.
Tumblr’s founder David Karp created the service to fill a need he had. Blogging was becoming more popular but it was mainly focused on writing — something Karp rightly assumed that not everyone wanted to do.
“You get that big empty box, and it demands that you come up with like a witty headline that convinces people to click over and care about your post, it demands several paragraphs of nicely formatted HTML with little aligned images, and a real editorial voice, real writing.” — David Karp
Today, Karp attributes Tumblr’s success — with its vision of “more stuff” including visuals like photos and GIFs — to continuing the strong focus of building something his team loves and uses:
“I think something that is still very true of Tumblr today is it is still a product our team builds for ourselves first and foremost and something we’re excited to use every day, and we spend hours every day using. I’d like to believe that not only comes through in the product, but that it’s kept us close to what Tumblr is really about, kept us from straying too far from that, and that I think kept it true to the original vision.”

The YouTube team is committed to testing their assumptions and building based on how the community engages with their product, based on previous experience:
“We had a lot of our own ideas about how the service would evolve. Coming from PayPal and eBay, we saw YouTube as a powerful way to add video to auctions, but we didn’t see anyone using our product that way, so we didn’t add features to support it.” — Chad Hurley
Co-founder Chad Hurley advises other startup founders to test their assumptions and listen to users, rather than jumping into a big product roadmap from the beginning, based soley on your own vision:

Yahoo!, like most of these companies, started out as a very small project to solve a specific problem: the founders had trouble digging up websites they wanted to revisit later, so they started cataloging the web.
“We called it ‘Jerry’s Guide to the World Wide Web.’ Before we knew it, people from all over the world were using this database that we created.” — Jerry Yang
From his experience at Yahoo!, co-founder Jerry Yang suggests being prepared for scaling up your business:


“We innovate by starting with the customer and working backwards. That becomes the touchstone for how we invent.” — Jeff Bezos
Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, insists that putting customers first since the beginning has been — and continues to be — the best competitive advantage Amazon has.
Since Amazon’s humble beginning as an online bookstore, it’s become a huge online retailer, selling almost everything. But even with huge growth, Bezos remains focused on what customers want:
“When [competitors are] in the shower in the morning, they’re thinking about how they’re going to get ahead of one of their top competitors. Here in the shower, we’re thinking about how we are going to invent something on behalf of a customer.”

There are plenty of other examples of starting small. In Joel’s post, he shares the example of Dale Carnegie’s book, How to Win Friends and Influence People, which started out as a short talk and some notes on an index card.
Another example I love is the “email-first startup.” Sunrise is a great example: what started out as a daily email digest is now a full-fledged calendar app for iPhone.
If you liked this post, you might also like The Habits of Successful People: They Have a Growth Mindset and People Don’t Buy Products, They Buy Better Versions of Themselves.
Originally published at blog.bufferapp.com on February 13, 2014.Image credits: Complex, Wayback Machine, Toby Bradbury
Interested in social media tips & strategies that set you up for success?

25 social media strategies and video tips, delivered daily
Buffer helps you share to Twitter, Facebook, Pinterest, LinkedIn & more. We're a team of 30+ spread across the world. We're hiring! http://buffer.com/journey
Sharing our ideas and experiences


Every early stage startup has doubters, naysayers, and skeptics. These people will tell you that you can’t do it, that you shouldn’t do it, that you are wasting your time. They will tell you that your idea is stupid and that you are burning your investor’s money.
Can you blame them? Let’s be honest here, when you first heard of Twitter, could you have guessed that it would be a $20B public company? Or even better, what if two students pitched you on the 17th search engine, when clearly you already knew that Yahoo cornered that market.
Add to this, that as an entrepreneur, you are filled with your own self-doubt. You will question why you left your safe job and risked everything for this idea that no one believes in except for you.
When that time comes, read this. Read this as a reminder that even the billon-dollar unicorns started off as fragile little babies.
To bring this point home, check out these amazing comment threads we found across the web.
On July 15, 2006, Techcrunch published a story about Odeo launching Twitter. The naysayers came out by the hundreds. Here is the headline:

And here are some of the comments. I especially love this first one:
In case you missed it, the commenter insisted on capitalizing NEVER. Classic.
Here’s another, a bit longer.
Although, I will give the commenter credit for claiming Twitter is not focused… which arguably is an accurate assessment even to this day. ;)
One more for good laughs:
That one actually names names (CRV) and ponders if burning money in a big BBQ party would be a better use of their investment.

Founded by an ex-Googler, Instagram actually started as a location-based mobile app. Here is the TechCrunch article (Sept 20, 2010) covering Instagram’s launch:


And here are two comments for your reading pleasure:
Oh man that was a doozy. Can someone please talk to the VCs and make sure they are funding real business models. Thank you.
One more:

Someone is going to make a plugin for cameras that already has filters… yeah they did, it’s called Instagram and it’s a mobile app. Nice one.

I’ve included two TC headlines for Uber. There is enough negative comments to go around and I wanted to give you a taste of how the comments change as the company matures.
Here is the first headline I could find on TechCrunch about UberCab (July 5, 2010) when Ryan Graves was still CEO:

This commenter wants to remind us that Uber’s monopoly is coming to an end (note this comment was made in 2012):

There were a couple other commenters on the above article accusing Uber of being a “fraud” and “complete crap.” They followed up with constructive advice, which is helpful.
Here is another headline, just seven months later:

Check out this beefy comment. We have what seems to be a domain expert:
That commenter walked us through the economics behind the taxi market and why Uber’s valuation is way too high ($60M post). Hold the phones, the taxi busy is very “mom and pop”… can someone call Travis ASAP please.
And one more shorter comment:
Is Uber equivalent to calling a taxi? I wouldn’t know — I’ve never really “called” a taxi but I do use Uber/Lyft almost weekly.


Pinterest launched in March 2010. It closed a round for $10M in mid 2011 and then another larger round for $27M in October, 2011, valuing the company around $200M.

The commenters here aren’t as bearish as they were on the others. Also, TechCrunch was using Facebook commenting system at the time and I suspect this had something to do with it. Here’s a commenter reminding us how “stupid” of an idea Pinterest is and how “gullible” startup VCs are:

Here’s another shorter comment. To this person’s credit, it could be argued that Pinterest is in fact a “sophisticated bookmarking system.” Nevertheless, it’s a good one at that.


So there you have it folks — four awesome startups that got trolled on their launch day. Although we can easily look back and laugh at these comments, there are hundreds of other startups that didn’t have it so easy.
Surely there is a lesson here. What you need to remind yourself of — and what is most important here — is that as long as you follow your passion, trust your gut, and work your ass off, the end will likely justify the means. Ignore the haters and do you. Do you. Follow your heart, follow your passion. Focus on your product and your brand advocates.

Like this post? Click ‘recommend’ below or throw me a tweet at @benhoffman_.
Thank you @danscalco for the help & inspiration on this post.
Learn, Teach, Repeat.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
I have a warning for you.
Ten years ago, or even five, this warning would have been simple. Back then, when screenwriters got together to bitch (which was often) it was usually about directors for being bullies, or for trying to steal a shared “Screenplay by” credit, or cutting necessary dialogue, or just plain botching things.
But, that’s not the case anymore.
The sands under all of us have shifted. And today, directors — even the arrogant ones — are running scared like everybody else.
When I started writing there were still a few mavericks out there; a few gunslingers who ran studios.
These were people who went with their guts and would make a movie just because they believed in it.
But that’s not the process anymore.
Today, before a studio chair can green-light a movie, that movie must also be blessed by the head of marketing, the head of foreign sales, and the head of home video.
It must be subjected to a process called “running the numbers,” which means that the movie’s cost — or, downside — is compared against its potential value because of its cast and what it might do in foreign markets.
This process takes into account every variable except the variable which actually matters — the one that can't possibly be gauged by any sort of calculus — which is whether or not the movie’s going to be any good.
And yet the process continues.
There are other challenges too. Ones born of progress itself.
It’s axiomatic now that the technology of movie making has never been greater than it is today, but I don't think any of us can honestly say that movies themselves have never been greater.
These things are not unrelated.
Suppose we were going to shoot a scene in a typical room. We can now, if we want to, add elements to that scene to make it more visually arresting.
We could light the ceiling on fire by using CGI.
We could enhance the experience by projecting it in 3-D.
Does any of this have anything to do with story, or character? No.
But, it would look great in the trailer.
That kind of thinking, the idea that dazzling visuals are enough, has led to a certain kind of movie-making laziness that has not been good for anybody.
Worse, it’s made it tougher and tougher to dazzle the audience because they know out there now that we’re making movies with software instead of cameras.
We’re storytellers, which means we have to do better. Sometimes I think we have to rescue the business from the very people who own it.
The good news is, we can.
Inside every one of you is the flame that has always lit the way in this industry, which is originality — that one spark of an idea, that one archetypal character, story, truth, or world that no one’s ever captured before.
Do you remember the movie WALL-E, the brilliant Pixar film?
He’s in a dangerous world and he’s one of thousands who are supposed to clean it up.
But, there’s something special about WALL-E. He finds this little tiny sprig which might one day become a plant. He guards it, and saves it, and preserves it on the chance that it might some day turn into something beautiful.
Well, Hollywood is that dangerous world and you are WALL-E.
That’s your charge now — greatness.
You have to pursue it every single day in everything you do; in your work ethic, in the way you conduct yourself, in who you choose to do business with.
You are now part of the most collaborative medium anywhere in the world and much of your success in it is going to be determined by how well you listen.
I was very fortunate in that regard. As the child of divorced parents, I learned early how to take two warring factions and make them both feel they had been heard.
This works fantastic in meetings.
You’re going to get a lot of notes in your career. And it’ll be your instinct to resent them. But, I’m telling you now to ignore this instinct.
The fact is that most of the notes you get will be smart and thoughtful.
And all of them — even the bad ones — will teach you something about where you failed to articulate something as clearly as you had it in your head or where something just didn’t make it on the page, where something just didn’t land.
But what will mostly define you more than anything else is what projects you say yes to and what projects you say no to.
Here’s a rule of thumb about that.
If someone offers you a job on a project that has real heat, a star attached to it, or some wonderful pedigree, and you find that you’re not waking up every morning thinking about it, if it’s not living inside of you trying to claw its way out, then don’t write it.
And always remember that if you are inspired we will be too.
The best advice I ever heard about writing came from Paddy Chayefsky — he, of Network and The Hospital. He also wrote Marty. (That’s three Oscars.)
Chayefsky’s advice to writers was simple: Don’t think of it as art, think of it as work.
Because when a writer is stuck and he or she calls in another writer for help, that second writer doesn’t say, “What’s the art problem?”
That second writer says, “What’s not working?” And they get under the hood and fix it together.
That’s most of what you’ll do in your career — work, problem solving. Approach it in that way and then at the end of every day, you’ll at least be able to say, “I did my job today.”
If you’re an artist, it’ll come out as art anyway.
The truth is there are millions of variables that will profoundly affect your career. Variables over which you have zero control.
You have no control over the state of the economy or over the health of our industry.
You have no say in whether or not the DVD business flat-lines, or whether or not the market is suddenly ripe for thrillers or superhero movies or — god help us — romantic comedies.
So maximize that variable.
I take my son to his bus stop every morning at 7:30. I’m at my desk working by 8:00. Somebody feeds me at 1:00 and I’m back at my desk by 1:30, working until 6:00.
I don’t surf the web. I don’t gamble online. I don’t go to the local Starbucks for two hours. I don’t try to seek out old girlfriends on Facebook.
I don’t do anything that requires time. I just work.
I do this because there’s a mountaintop that I’m trying to get to and I’m nowhere near it.
I can see it from here. But, the accomplishments of our greatest writers, that’s the Holy Grail for me.
I want to leave a legacy like they did.
I want to spend a lot of time in tuxedos.
The next time the AFI does a list of the 100 greatest movies of all time, I want my name on one of them, at least.
And I want some day in 2032, for someone to cite one of my movies with the same kind of reverence I have for those movies of the ‘70s.
Luck will not get me there, although I will need plenty of it.
The only thing that will get me there is my willingness to write that 15th draft, or proofread it one more time, or be open to notes from someone who’s smarter than I am.
It may be that I’ll get notes from one of you one day. And I trust that they’ll be good ones.
I’ll leave you with one last thought.
At the Writers’ Guild building on Third and Fairfax there’s a library. In that library you can read any screenplay that you’d ever want to read.
Visit that library. It’s your history up on those shelves; the bar that was set for you by the writers that have preceded you.
Their struggles belong to you now. Cherish them. Learn from them. Let them challenge you to keep getting better.
I wish you nothing but the best.
This is an excerpt from Billy Ray’s keynote speech at the 2012 Academy Nicholl Fellowship awards.
We are The Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences and we champion the power of human imagination.
A conversation about the power of movies
“they said ‘how ya gonna keep your job if ya performance has suffered from low morale’ eem the janitor was dyin”
I got fired two days ago.
It was a slight surprise. I knew it was going to happen, but I didn’t expect for it to happen so soon.
Getting fired was embarrassing. I have never been fired before! Being asked to turn in my key and access card, and that they would pack up and mail me my stuff... Having my big boss escort me to my cubicle to make sure I wouldn’t steal any paperclips… I felt like a slug being salted to death while a cruel child smiled down. I had relocated! I had been there over two years! That had to at least count for something, right?
No.
Getting fired was sad. All those Peewee Longway memes saved on my work computer… gone. I’ll never get those back.
Getting fired was frightening. My wife and two daughters rely on me to pay our bills, and I felt like I had failed them. I’m lucky enough that I will receive my salary and benefits through the end of the month, but the prospect of being unemployed with a family induced a mini-crisis. I’ll be able to find a job in a few days, right? Right?! RIGHT!?!? As my breathing normalized and the initial surrealness wore off on the walk to my car, another emotion washed over me.
Getting fired felt good.
I was free. Finally. I should have left this job 8 months ago, but I was a coward, dragging my feet because things were awful but manageable. I sat at a computer all day with no creative outlet, just days full of .xlsx attachments and “Hi Team” email greetings. Did I like what I was doing? Not really. Did it pay well enough to make me compromise myself? Yes. It was a decent job that I sometimes excelled at during those rare occasions when I was engaged. For months, I convinced myself that it would get better. My manager, parents, anyone I talked to said the same thing: “Well, of course you aren’t going to be happy, but you just have to do the work!”
What an absurd concept. The thing I spend a majority of my life devoted to isn’t supposed to bring me an iota of joy? It’s not like having a job you hate makes you appreciate your free time more ( *Very Optimistic Tumblr Teen Voice* The bad makes you appreciate the good!) Having a job that eats away at your very core actually sullies your free time more. You realize how little of it you do have and often forsake it. You dread having to go back. It poisons your psyche. I was miserable from 8:30 am to 6:30 pm five days a week, and when I came home the transition from miserable to happy was slow.
I developed a habit of stopping at the gas station by my house to chug one or two Wicked Redd’s Apple Ales (don’t judge me [it’s the best value at 2 for $5 {and 8% ABV}]) to shake the rust off my personality before I walked through the door. I’m not proud to admit this; it’s pathetic. However, I was a nicer, happier person, which in turn made me a “better” husband and father. Do the ends justify the means?
If my despondency was a broken leg, I used alcohol as an ill-fitting crutch I got for a bargain at a garage sale. I got by, but never tried to fix the real issue.
I met with the vice president the week prior to discuss working remotely — I wanted to move back to Greenville, SC, from Columbia, SC, to be closer to family — and my dissatisfaction with my current roles and career path. It did not go well. For every issue I had there were just no real resolutions either in the short or long term. I got frustrated. When my wife inquired how the meeting went I described it as “two people who were dating having an argument and walking away feeling like they broke up but weren’t sure.” Oh yeah, baby! When that premonition hits!!! >>>>>
What this taught me is that Corporate America gives not one fuck about you. It doesn’t matter how long it’s been there or valuable it is, a cog gets no sympathy or funeral when it falters. It gets replaced. I know the reason I was fired was due to recurring issues regarding lack of communication but they had just given me a 20% raise at the beginning of this year for the hard work I put in during The Holiday Season (our busiest and most lucrative period). They know what I’m capable of, but it’s more about results than morale. I don’t blame them for firing me. My work had suffered, and I had detached. Psych! It’s everyone else’s fault but my own.
I’m not sure what I’ll do next. Do I try to go after another bland SEM job and fall back into the trap? Continue this cycle for the rest of my life? I hope not. Do I try to switch industries? That is certainly an option. Or do I dare to take a risk and sacrifice a bit of money for a bit of fulfillment? That sounds good in theory… but who knows. Maybe I can make something crazy work.
My buddy shared this misquotation with me by Thoreau at lunch hours before I got fired (the quote itself isn’t actually by Thoreau at all, and he really only said the first half of it): “Most men lead lives of quiet desperation and go to the grave with the song still in them.” Even though it’s a bastardized Frankenstein mash-up of a Thoreau sentence and an Oliver Wendell Holmes sentence… it actually has more impact that way. It helped me. Perchance it helps one of you out there.
In the meantime, I’ve got 4 weeks and a considerable amount of time to devote to churning out content. I no longer have any excuses to not send out pitches and finish aging drafts. The amount of Fire Tweets™ I can get off now that I don’t have to respond to client needs is going to make you vomit in your own lap.
Still, I am looking for a job so if you are a benevolent Internet Person with real world hiring power, here’s my very cute LinkedIn profile. Hit me up. Let’s build. Though, I suppose if you are, and you read this… my chances aren’t very strong.
Just trying to have fun on the Internet. Surreally oucheah. #TeamGuddaGudda

Death is always a surprise. No one expects it. Not even terminal patients think they are going to die in a day or two. In a week, maybe. But only when this particular week is the next week.
We are never ready. It is never the right time. By the time it comes, you will not have done all the things that we wanted to. The end always comes as a surprise, and it’s a tearful moment for widows and a bore for the children who don’t really understand what a funeral is (thank God).
It was no different with my father. In fact, his death was even more unexpected. He was gone at age 27. The same age that claimed the lives of several famous musicians. He was young. Way too young. My father was not a musician and neither a famous person. Cancer doesn’t pick its victims. He was gone when I was young, and I learned what a funeral was because of him. I was 8 and half, old enough to miss him for a lifetime. Had he died before, I wouldn’t have memories. I would feel no pain. But I wouldn’t have a father in my life. And I had a father.
I had a father who was both firm and fun. Someone who would tell a joke before grounding me. That way, I wouldn’t feel so bad. Someone who kissed me on the forehead before I went to sleep. A habit which I passed on to my children. Someone who forced me to support the same football team he supported, and who explained things better than my mother. Do you know what I mean? A father like that is someone to be missed.
He never told me he was going to die. Even when he was lying on a hospital bed with tubes all over him, he didn’t say a word. My father made plans for the next year even though he knew he wouldn’t be around in the next month. Next year, we would go fishing, we would travel, we would visit places we’ve never been. Next year would be an amazing year. We lived the same dream.
I believe — actually I’m sure — he thought this should bring luck. He was a superstitious man. Thinking about the future was the way he found to keep hope alive. The bastard made me laugh until the very end. He knew about it. He didn’t tell me. He didn’t see me crying.
And suddenly, the next year was over before it even started.
My mother picked me up at school and we went to the hospital. The doctor told the news with all the sensitivity that doctors lose over the years. My mother cried. She did have a tiny bit of hope. As I said before, everyone does. I felt the blow. What does it mean? Wasn’t it just a regular disease, the kind of disease doctors heal with a shot? I hated you, dad. I felt betrayed. I screamed with anger in the hospital, until I realized my father was not around to ground me. I cried.
Then, my father was once again a father to me. With a shoebox under her arm, a nurse came by to comfort me. The box was full of sealed envelopes, with sentences where the address should be. I couldn’t understand exactly what was going on. The nurse then handed me a letter. The only letter that was out of the box.
“Your dad asked me to give you this letter. He spent the whole week writing these, and he wants you read it. Be strong.” the nurse said, holding me.
The envelope read WHEN I’M GONE. I opened it.

Son,
If you’re reading this, I’m dead. I’m sorry. I knew I was going to die.
I didn’t want to tell you what was going to happen, I didn’t want to see you crying. Well, it looks like I’ve made it. I think that a man who’s about to die has the right to act a little bit selfish.
Well, as you can see, I still have a lot to teach you. After all, you don’t know crap about anything. So I wrote these letters for you. You must not open them before the right moment, OK? This is our deal.
I love you. Take care of your mom. You’re the man of the house now.
Love, dad.

PS: I didn’t write letters to your mom. She’s got my car.

He made me stop crying with his bad handwriting. Printing was not easy back then. His ugly writing, which I barely understood, made me feel calm. It made me smile. That’s how my father did things. Like the joke before the grounding.
That box became the most important thing in the world for me. I told my mother not to open it. Those letters were mine and no one else could read them. I knew all the life moments written on the envelopes by heart. But it took a while for these moments to happen. And I forgot about it.
Seven years later, after we moved to a new place, I had no idea where I put the box. I couldn’t remember it. And when we don’t remember something, we usually don’t care about it. If something goes lost in your memory, It doesn’t mean you lost it. It simply doesn’t exist anymore. It’s like change in the pockets of your trousers.
And so it happened. My teenage years and my mother’s new boyfriend triggered what my father had anticipated a long time before. My mother had several boyfriends, and I always understood it. She never married again. I don’t know why, but I like to believe that my father had been the love of her life. This boyfriend, however, was worthless. I thought she was humiliating herself by dating him. He had no respect for her. She deserved something a lot better than a guy she met at a bar.
I still remember the slap she gave me after I pronounced the word “bar”. I’ll admit that I deserved it. I learned that over the years. At the time, when my skin was still burning from the slap, I remembered the box and the letters. I remembered a specific letter, which read “WHEN YOU HAVE THE WORST FIGHT EVER WITH YOUR MOM”.
I ransacked my bedroom looking for it, which earned me another slap in the face. I found the box inside a suitcase lying on top of the wardrobe. The limbo. I looked through the letters, and realized that I had forgotten to open WHEN YOU HAVE YOUR FIRST KISS. I hated myself for doing that, and I decided that would be the next letter I’d open. WHEN YOU LOSE YOUR VIRGINITY came right next in the pack, a letter I was hoping to open really soon. Eventually I found what I was looking for.

Now apologize to her.
I don’t know why you’re fighting and I don’t know who’s right. But I know your mother. So a humble apology is the best way to get over this. I’m talking about a down-on-your-knees apology.
She’s your mother, kid. She loves you more than anything in this world. Do you know that she went through natural birth because someone told her that it would be the best for you? Have you ever seen a woman giving birth? Do you need a bigger proof of love than that?
Apologize. She’ll forgive you.
Love, dad.

My father was not a great writer, he was just a bank clerk. But his words had a great impact on me. They were words that carried more wisdom than all of my 15 years of age at the time. (That wasn’t very hard to achieve, though).
I rushed to my mother’s room and opened the door. I was crying when she turned her head to look me in the eyes. She was also crying. I don’t remember what she yelled at me. Probably something like “What do you want?” What I do remember is that I walked towards her holding the letter my father wrote. I held her in my arms, while my hands crumpled the old paper. She hugged me, and we both stood in silence.
My father’s letter made her laugh a few minutes later. We made peace and talked a little about him. She told me about some of his most eccentric habits, such as eating salami with strawberries. Somehow, I felt he was sitting right next to us. Me, my mother and a piece of my father, a piece he left for us, on a piece of paper. It felt good.
It didn’t take long before I read WHEN YOU LOSE YOUR VIRGINITY

Congratulations, son.
Don’t worry, it gets better with time. It always sucks the first time. Mine happened with an ugly woman…who was also a prostitute.
My biggest fear is that you’d ask your mother what virginity is after reading what’s on the letter. Or even worse, reading what I just wrote without knowing what jerking off is (you know what it is, right?). But that’s none of my business.
Love, dad.

My father followed me through my entire life. He was with me, even though he was not near me. His words did what no one else could: they gave me strength to overcome countless challenging moments in my life. He would always find a way to put a smile on my face when things looked grim, or clear my mind during those angry moments.
WHEN YOU GET MARRIED made me feel very emotional. But not so much as WHEN YOU BECOME A FATHER.

Now you’ll understand what real love is, son. You’ll realize how much you love her, but real love is something you’ll feel for this little thing over there. I don’t know if it’s a boy or a girl. I’m just a corpse, I’m not a fortune teller.
Have fun. It’s a great thing. Time is gonna fly now, so make sure you’ll be around. Never miss a moment, they never come back. Change diapers, bathe the baby, be a role model to this child. I think you have what it takes to be an amazing father, just like me.

The most painful letter I read in my entire life was also the shortest letter my father wrote. While he wrote those four words, I believe he suffered just as much as I did living through that moment. It took a while, but eventually I had to open WHEN YOUR MOTHER IS GONE.

She is mine now.

A joke. A sad clown hiding his sadness with a smile on his makeup. It was the only letter that didn’t make me smile, but I could see the reason.
I always kept the deal I had made with my father. I never read letters before their time. With the exception of WHEN YOU REALIZE YOU’RE GAY. Since I never thought I’d have to open this one, I decided to read it. It was one of the funniest letters, by the way.

What can I say? I’m glad I’m dead.
Now, all joking aside, being half-dead made me realize that we care too much about things that don’t matter much. Do you think that changes anything, son?
Don’t be silly. Be happy.

I would always wait for the next moment, the next letter. The next lesson my father would teach me. It’s amazing what a 27 year old man can teach to an 85 year old senior like me.
Now that I am lying on a hospital bed, with tubes in my nose and my throat thanks to this damn cancer, I run my fingers on the faded paper of the only letter I didn’t open. The sentence WHEN YOUR TIME COMES is barely visible on the envelope.
I don’t want to open it. I’m scared. I don’t want to believe that my time is near. It’s a matter of hope, you know? No one believes they’re gonna die.
I take a deep breath, opening the envelope.

Hello, son. I hope you’re an old man now.
You know, this letter was the easiest to write, and the first I wrote. It was the letter that set me free from the pain of losing you. I think your mind becomes clearer when you’re this close to the end. It’s easier to talk about it.
In my last days here I thought about the life I had. I had a brief life, but a very happy one. I was your father and the husband of your mother. What else could I ask for? It gave me peace of mind. Now you do the same.
My advice for you: you don’t have to be afraid
PS: I miss you
Just figuring the best way to be you.
Hi! Today seems like a good day to answer some frequently asked questions.
Q: Are you marking any significant anniversaries today?
A: Yes, yes I am! Today is the second anniversary of Steve’s death.
Q: Who is Steve?
A: Steve was my husband uh DOI.
Q: Urm, now I feel bad for not knowing that.
A: It’s fine. At the two year point I find myself having to make more and more choices about whether or not I immediately blurt out HEYDIDYOUKNOWI’MAWIDOWTHAT’SMYFUNFACT!!!!!!! People in my life are less likely to have been around then and more likely to need to be briefed on this backstory. This is extremely annoying because after two years, I still don’t have a better way to relate this information than all caps-no spaces shouting.
But beneath that, it’s actually a super awesome thing, because it means that my world has gotten so much bigger in these two years. I’ve met a lot of people, and done a lot of things that I maybe only mildly imagined doing before.
Q: Dude, that sort of makes it sound like you’re glad Steve died.
A: I’m not, and that’s kind of a dick thing to say.
Q: I’M SORRY, I’M SORRY, I’M SORRY!
A: Ha ha, SIKE! I’m just fucking with you. I’m not glad Steve died, not even a little. He has missed SO MUCH COOL SHIT. He missed the opening with Cuba, which he would have been really stoked about. He’s missing an equality revolution in spaces around gender and sexual identity, race, police power, capital, and class. He’s missing whatever they’re doing with Hine over at Eastern Market. He’s missing our cat Claudia’s turbulent adolescence. He’s missing BERNIE SANDERS ELIZABETH WARRREN AND LAWRENCE LESSIG ‘NUFF SAID.
Also, I’m missing him. Obviously. A lot. BUT: I have a cousin who’s also a widow, and she told my sister that she’s not sure if she’d bring her husband back. Which sounds TOTALLY CRAZY to other people, BUT: When you experience a loss like this, you get to see a really wild new amount of life. Suddenly the range of the type of sad you can feel, to the type of happy you can feel, is busted open. The spectrum from happy to sad isn’t a foot wide anymore — it’s as far as your arms can stretch and then to the edges of the room and then up the block and over into the next neighborhood.
So I am not happy that Steve died. But I am happy a lot of the time, which I didn’t really anticipate on this day two years ago.
Q: What happened on this day two years ago?
A: Good question! While many people know that I am a widow, probably not a ton know what went down. Pretty much no one knows exactly what went down, because I don’t even know what happened.
What I do know is that for a couple of weeks, Steve had what we thought was a summer cold. Some coughing, some sneezing. Then he started a new job, and felt like that stress was compounding the illness — but it didn’t occur to either of us that this was a thing that was more than just something passing. He certainly didn’t think it was worth taking a sick day during his first week of work.
That Friday he came home from work REALLY REALLY sick. He’d barely been able to drive. I made him get up off the couch and go to an urgent care. The doctor there prescribed him an antibiotic and said “it’s either the flu or it’s not, so this will either work or it won’t.” We went to CVS and got the scrip filled right as they were closing. I had to pull a cry face to get them to fill it, and when I got back to the car I was pretty proud of myself for badgering them into doing it — I told Steve that “bitches get shit done.” Tina Fey went on to steal this line from me. (Right? I’m pretty sure that’s how this went down, but my memory isn’t great.)
Steve didn’t sleep very well that night. Around 5 a.m. he couldn’t sleep, so we woke up and watched some 30 Rock together. (The degree to which Tina Fey figures into this story is only being revealed to me now, two years later.) I went back to sleep. Around 9 a.m. I made my way up to Eastern Market to get groceries, and when I got back, Steve came down the stairs, carrying a bunch of his sick dude things — probably some Kleenexes, his thermometer, a seltzer can. I joked about him doing a Rachael Ray carry. Then he started coughing.
I don’t remember the sequence of events very well. He was sitting on the couch at one point and I encouraged him to cough it up, whatever it was. At one point he went into the kitchen and looked out the glass door to the patio, and said “Oh fuck.”
He started coughing up blood. I went to get him a bowl to cough into, and then said “that’s it, I’m calling 911.” And then he collapsed onto his knees, and fell on the ground.
The 911 operator wasn’t super helpful. I kept asking if I should do CPR and she kept asking if he was responsive, if he was breathing. I was surprised by how hard it was to tell. At one point I pulled on his ear to see if he would respond. I turned him on his side and tried to clear his airway. I cajoled the 911 operator, but weirdly, in the moment, I was really focused on being polite. Like, using a ton of please and thank you, as if that would make the fire truck get up Florida Avenue faster. Finally, after a couple of minutes, I heard the sirens and the operator said to me “well, let me just make sure that’s for you.” Because, Welcome to Washington, D.C., District Slogan: Those Sirens Might Not Be For You.
The EMTs cut off his shirt and intubated him, but they didn’t shock him. They used a machine to tell them whether or not to do it, and the machine said “don’t.” I don’t know if it was “don’t bother” or “you don’t need to.” I don’t know if they knew this wasn’t going to end well or not. They asked me how old he was, which I assume was to gauge whether to keep working or not.
Once we were in the ambulance, I asked where we were going and one of the EMTs just sort of nodded “no” to me, and indicated I should hold on. It felt like we sat there for a long time, trying to figure out what was happening. I struggled to call my parents with my cellphone — which was, ironically a recurring nightmare for me. That something was happening to Steve and I’d have to dial 911 and I wouldn’t be able to unlock my phone or dial the right number. Eventually I got my dad, who was in North Carolina, and he sent my sister over, who luckily was already down in the city helping a friend move.
Then I had to call Steve’s parents, which was horrible. Steve’s mom was excited to hear from me, since on their end, it was just a normal Saturday morning. And I had to say, no, turn down, your son’s in the back of an ambulance and the EMT just gave me a “no” nod.
Eventually we took off for Howard University Hospital, which was the closest ER. They took me into a tiny little room that wasn’t square, so all of the furniture was crammed in at weird angles. A chaplain came in and said some very anatomically specific prayers, which even as they were cutting Steve open and trying to resuscitate his heart directly, I thought was funny. My sister Sarah showed up, and they called a Catholic chaplain so he could give Steve last rites. I don’t know how the last rites went, but in terms of dealing with the non-dying, that guy was fucking terrible. I wish I could remember his name so I could pan him on Yelp.
Doctors would come in pretty frequently to update me, but only one or two of those times were they hopeful. Apparently his heart caught a couple of times, but it never stayed working. When the doctor came in to tell me that they’d declared a time of death, I made him tell it to Steve’s parents on the phone.
Sarah and I saw him at least twice, once while they were still working on him, and once after they’d cleaned him up. As they led me out of the ER, I told the nurse that I was conflicted about whether or not I should take a photo of his body. She told me I’d see him again, at the funeral, and that I should just focus on sleeping and eating. And then I said “I can’t believe it, he was such a good husband.”
And she said, “Yeah, but he did a shitty thing today.”
And that was the first time I laughed after Steve died.
Ultimately what seems to have happened is that an infection developed in his heart. This is probably related to the surgery he’d had around Christmas, to repair an aneurysm in a valve in his heart. I don’t have better clarity than this, and to some extent, the facts I did dig up, I’ve forgotten. It’s impossible to overstate what a hit your memory takes when you lose someone. It’s also impossible to overstate what a bureaucratic clusterfuck it is. GUYS, I CAN’T STRESS THIS ENOUGH: IF YOU SHARE A PHONE PLAN WITH SOMEONE, MAKE SURE EVERYONE’S AN AUTHORIZED USER.
Q: Um damn, I’m like, a little overwhelmed now.
A: Yeah, me too. I’ve been that way for two years. So if you sent me an email and I didn’t respond to it, that’s what happened. I couldn’t respond to your query about a story pitch because my husband coughed to death.
Q: So how are you doing in general?
A: I mean, like I keep saying, it’s fine. I realized today that I’d never much thought about what would happen after two years. After one year, I thought I might try to date (and in fact I tried earlier than that, and it was COMICALLY BAD). In year two I thought I might be in a good enough head space to make a career transition (also: fail).
But now, with no more map — with truly no expectation that getting this far was a real possibility, I feel like I’m starting to be strong enough to do the work to make those sorts of things happen. I have the beginnings of a plan and a little bit of vision about how to pursue the kind of creative community I want to be part of, and the resources to do that, even if it doesn’t make any money. Even though it’s frightening, I feel like I’m getting closer to being able to hand someone my soppy bruised tomato of a heart. If they cup their hands and treat it with gentle little kitten paws, I think I might be ok.
One thing is for sure — I used to fucking HATE IT when people asked me, with that welling sincerity in their eyes, “but how ARE you?” I probably don’t actually hate it any less, but it happens less now.
Q: What have you learned over the past two years?
A: Hoo boy. HOO BOY. HUUUUUOOOOOOOHHHHHHH BOOOOOOOOOY.
Q: It sort of seems like you’re stalling, tbh.
A: Busted. I think about that question a lot. I would love to unequivocally be like “I am so much more empathetic now, and I have grand insights into the universe!”
But that’s not really the case. I haven’t really had a magnificent realization about the necessity of doing what you love, or cutting the bullshit. For those of you who don’t know me, bullshit is my number one stock-in-trade. If I have had anything like a satori, I haven’t acted on it.
Probably the biggest finding of the past two years for me is that being comfortable being uncomfortable is a very effective way to be a human.
I am constantly trying to teach myself to watch my feelings as they pass through me, rather than chasing them away with Manhattans or Ambien or Netflix. I often fail at this. I am trying harder to engage with people as they are — not being afraid of strangers, asking better questions, really listening to the answers, not being afraid to go to a second location, being less judgmental.
Basically, I’m trying to have an open heart. I’ve learned that it’s really hard to do, but I think it’s probably the Step 1 of any attempt to really be alive, following something like this.
Q: I’ve noticed that throughout this FAQ you’ve used two spaces after a period.
A: Yeah, I’m not a fucking ANIMAL.
All my love,
Rachel
Producer @morningedition for @NPRNew rachelmendlward.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences
We’re on a journey together, you and me. We’ve come a long way, but design for the web is still in its adolescence. In the early aughts we learned to build websites without tables, then we learned to use data to make decisions. Emotion never played a role in driving page views, purchases or video plays. We just needed to get people from point A to point B. People live their entire lives online now, we’re embarking on a new frontier as designers; we’re designing frameworks for people to exist online — a lot like they do offline.
I first started to notice the disconnect between design and how people actually live after my mom died. Every Mother’s Day my inbox filled with messages suggesting gifts for my dead mom. It used to sting, especially when I worked at a greeting card company and all 10 of my test accounts would be bombarded with reminders she was gone. I felt utterly alone in those moments, but somewhere a marketer was watching open rates and conversions go up and to the right. They weren’t thinking about me, and it’s not personal, they’re making something for the majority of people — people whose moms don’t happen to be dead. Almost a decade later I’m pretty used to it, but I know even the most benign design can be loaded with risk.
When I worked in travel we ran the risk of sending people promotions based on trips they had booked for funerals. When I worked in insurance people most commonly accessed their policy documents after experiencing an accident. In one user test a woman was shown her credit score in an effort to provide more helpful context about how her auto policy rate was calculated. Confronted with this number she broke down in tears, the score triggered memories of a terrible hospitalization that had caused her family financial crisis. Even filing your taxes can be anxiety inducing if you’re down to the wire and can’t make sense of the software. People completing seemingly straightforward tasks do so in a variety of contexts and life circumstances. Humanity can be sad, complicated and messy. We don’t stop being human when we go online.Sometimes even when you’re trying to make something with the best intentions, something can go terribly wrong. Sometimes the very tools you create to protect people cause harm. What can we do?
For years designers have approached software as though it were neutral: here’s a set of options, now complete a task. In reality, people interact with software like it’s a human. As designers, we can shift our approach to thinking about how people might feel using our products much like we would think about having a conversation with another person. The ability to handle relationships and be aware of emotions is called emotional intelligence, and it’s what’s often missing in software design today.
Emotional intelligence is defined with five characteristics:

The difficult thing about “know thyself” as it applies to software, is that software doesn’t have feelings. Ultimately what’s expressed to a person using software is either explicit from a designer when we have opinions and try to persuade, or implicitly from how the interaction makes the person feel.For example, on Facebook, we want to be respectful guardians of people’s data, so in ad settings we want people to declare intent about how they want to be advertised to. This is in contrast to presenting an array of every possible option which a person may never take action on. We ask how you want to see ads: “Do you want to see ads based on your behavior?” This is how we designed empowerment: we gave people the tools to make an informed choice, by not muddying the message with all of the more granular options within that choice.
It’s easy for designers to be aware of our opinions and design interactions that support the outcomes we want. Being aware of how non-choices affect an experience is much more challenging. Emotions spread. Humans mirror. If a people perceive an interface as expressing an emotion, they are likely to also feel that emotion. Whether designers intend to or not, we’re building relationships. Imagine the relationship you might have with a piece of government software as if it were a person. How do we act and feel in relationships? Things can escalate quickly. An interaction could be just the latest in a series of slights, it’s like the app just left a wet towel on the floor or forgot to take out the trash. You’re screaming in your head “I can’t believe it’s doing this to me!” Maybe it’s preventing you from doing something really important, like renewing your license. This has a real effect on our bodies. A universal trigger for anger is a sense of endangerment, which can be signaled not just with physical threat, but more often symbolic threats: being treated unjustly, or being insulted and demeaned. This creates an energy surge in our body which lasts several minutes, but the effects of which can last much longer.
The risk with the neutrality of software is that we may be able to understand every possible logical outcome in a situation (though often we don’t) but we’re unable to assign values to those outcomes. This is especially true with binary systems: a person completes a task or they don’t. This sounds neutral, when in fact the consequences of not completing the task could range from inconvenient to devastating. This lack of awareness is where we get into trouble and sometimes unintentionally do harm. Reason without feeling is blind.
What is the cost of a decision that harms a few thousand people compared to a decision that irritates millions? Ellen Pao talks about problems of scale to The Washington Post “If mistakes are made 0.01 percent of the time, that could mean tens of thousands of mistakes.”So much of an emotional message is nonverbal, and a computer can’t pick up those cues. Designers can’t see people’s expressions or body language, but we can try to understand reactions by paying very careful attention to what people do, particularly in aggregate.Numbers often don’t mean what we think they do, they tell us the what but not the why. Metrics are a great way to come up with assumptions to be challenged, but don’t say a lot without context. If someone is spending more time in a product, is it because the product is great or because the person can’t find what they need?A friend of mine used a feature on a professional networking site that scraped her address book for contacts. She didn’t know the service would automatically connect her to every person in her inbox, an inbox that spans a decade. She was suddenly connected to a person she never wanted to speak to again. Somewhere in a data warehouse, the volume of connections on this service appears to be going up, which superficially seems good. However, the quality of those connections is diminishing. How many of these people actually want to be connected? How many are actually going to return to the site because they were connected to someone they exchanged an email with 3 years ago? That number going up isn’t very meaningful.

Designers need their users’ motivations to inform their own. The best way to understand motivation is to change perspective. Unfortunately, this isn’t always easy, and I had to learn the hard way. After college, as one does when adult problems and a desk job catch up to you, I gained a lot of weight — over a hundred pounds, which I later lost. I learned very quickly what it meant to live in a world not designed for me. Things most people take for granted are ordeals: seat belts on airplanes, buying functional workout clothes, or really any clothes. The first time I walked into a store and realized they didn’t carry my size I felt a lot of things. I felt like the store was actively hostile. I felt like the store was rejecting me and was saying another type of body was better than mine.
I do not recommend trying this.Our perspectives can also be informed by the people we spend time with. If a team is diverse, more perspectives are brought to the table, products have fewer blind spots and designers create more things people actually need. Think about five people you know with wildly different backgrounds and life circumstances, how would they feel using different products?
A little humility can go a long way. Designers are not the users of their products. Right as designers were learning about web standards, popular design offered the wisdom “scratch your own itch.” This works well for solving one specific problem, but ignores all other problems. Designers can’t assume everyone wants what we’re offering. People don’t always use things in the way we expect, only research can tell us what’s really going on.
For a while after my mom died, every birthday and Christmas my Stepdad would get me a Bath & Body Works gift card. His reasoning was that my mom loved Bath & Body Works, so I probably would to. I hate Bath & Body Works. His intentions were sweet and sincere, but every time I got one of those gift cards I felt like he didn’t know me. Every time I design something new I ask myself if I am giving someone Bath & Body Works gift cards.
Good content strategy is a great tool for communicating with an intentional tone. What’s the product’s voice? If the design were a person, how should it be perceived? Friend? Teacher? Trusted advisor? Sham-wow spokesperson? What kind of reaction could this voice elicit when someone is experiencing the product in the worst case scenario?Let’s be honest about priorities. The definition of priority is “a thing that is regarded as more important than another.” By prioritizing one thing, we are inherently deprioritizing something else, do I know what I’m deprioritizing? Eric Meyer says when you call something an edge case, you’re really just defining the limits of what you care about; he calls them stress cases. (He would also like to give credit for paraphrasing Evan Henſleigh.) In December Facebook’s Year in Review product suggested Eric should relive a “great” year, resurfacing a post about his daughter’s death. We invited him to come speak to us candidly about his experiences. Generously, he told us the reason we don’t see planes falling from the sky is because there’s 60 years of air crash data to draw on when designing planes.
This is uncharted territory, and mistakes are going to be made. When designers make mistakes we have to take responsibility to move forward. An honest process has enough time to test assumptions, and to be wrong and iterate on those assumptions. Good research will bring as many new questions as it does answer. Sometimes a product works great in carefully controlled tests, but won’t be stressed until wide release.

Without mindfulness, products might only be rude, but they might also affect someone’s health, their support systems, or their very livelihood. A good friend once told me that to be an adult is to be aware. It’s time for design to become an adult. As product and service design collide, designers are responsible for understanding every ripple of our work.
Nurture the relationships your products are creating as though they were happening in the physical world, and give without expecting anything in return. We have a saying at Facebook, this journey is 1% finished. No one can ever be fully aware, but designers have to be open to growth and the possibility we’re wrong. Less up and to the right, more up and to the heart.
Many thanks to Jonathon Colman, Lisa Sy, Hannah Fletcher and Ed Salvana for their feedback on my drafts.
I make creepy comics and toys, and design @ Facebook.
Stories from designers at Facebook offices across the world

A little over a year ago, I moved to London and as part of the move, I sold my car. This was a big deal for me as a native of LA, where car ownership is celebrated, no matter how bad the traffic gets. I owned a 2004 Toyota 4Runner with 140k miles (not all VCs fly in private jets to work). I am not a “car person,” but I loved my car because it almost never broke down in our ten years together. But, the move meant it had to go, and so it was sold for next-to-nothing to a really nice dad with two kids.
While I may have been sad to see my car go, I wasn’t concerned about being car-less because — when not on strike — public transportation is pretty good in Europe, and Uber is nearly ubiquitous in major cities. I knew Uber was more expensive in London, but everything was more expensive in London and I had factored that into my decision to move in the first place.
What I didn’t expect was that depending on Uber (UberX specifically) would actually be cheaper than owning and driving a car. Much cheaper. Yes, the company says this, but I didn’t think it was realistic yet.
Well, it is. At least for me.
I’ve been back in SF for a couple of months and have been wondering if I should buy a car. So, I compared my transportation expenses over the past two years. There are some obvious caveats, but here’s a quick break-down:
Car (August 2013-August 2014)
Apartment Parking Space: $350/month x 12 months = $4,200 [1]
Gas: 23 gallons x $3.75/gallon = $86.25, $86.25 x 52 weeks = $4,485 [2]
Insurance: $133 x 12 months = $1,596 [3]
That’s $10,281/year right there for just the basics, not factoring in normal servicing, repairs, car washes, other parking, tolls or tickets (and there were tickets). And of course, that’s not including the amortized cost for the purchase of the car in the first place. It’s just the bare annual minimum.
This also doesn’t include the additional Uber, taxi or public transportation fares I had throughout the year when I wasn’t driving — for example, after drinks or when traveling in other cities.
Uber (August 2014-August 2015)
Total cost: $4,655.79
That’s a dramatic difference in cost. But to be fair, I had to rent a car 3–4 times in the last year for an additional $1k or so combined. And of course, like the year before, this doesn’t factor in public transportation costs, etc.
Now obviously there are some significant caveats to my comparison. My cities and schedule changed in this time period (though the Uber-only year includes three months in SF). I could have driven a much more fuel efficient vehicle, taken public transportation down south to Sand Hill more often, found cheaper parking (though I’m not actually sure that would have been possible in SF), etc. This is not an exact science.
But if anything, I was traveling more miles in Europe and riding with Uber more frequently because it was dependable and familiar to me.
And that brings me to the part of the comparison that can’t be quantified: peace of mind. Owning a car — particularly in a city — can be stressful. There’s no fewer than a dozen startups in San Francisco trying to fix just the parking hassle (on-demand valets! driveway-share marketplaces! etc). Not having to deal with a car is a luxury — a cheaper one for me. Even when I commute down the peninsula, the combination of a train and Uber for last mile reach is vastly preferable to the hell that is the 101.
Uber has reached such high city density, geographic ubiquity and price diversity that it can truly be an economical replacement for car ownership for some people. There are dozens of factors that make the trade-off right for me, and that’s obviously not the case for everyone, everywhere (families are an obvious example, though Uber appears to be working on that). But it will increasingly be the right choice for more people as the company reaches even greater density and rolls out new services.
It’s worth doing the math for yourself.
***
[1] Apartment parking isn’t cheap in SF, I believe this is true in other condensed cities as well.
[2] The 2004 Toyota 4Runner has a 23 gallon tank with roughly 15–17 mile fuel efficiency. Pretty bad, but remember, this was an old car. My commute from home to KP in Menlo Park was 70 miles round trip and I’d go down to the office 2–3 times a week. The rest of the time I was commuting around the city or out of town on the weekends. I filled up my tank roughly every week and looking at a historical almanac for SF gas prices that year, $3.75/gallon seems about the average. San Francisco has the most expensive gas in California.
[3] My car insurance was $1,600/year, it probably would have been slightly less if I had a newer car.
[Disclosure: I’m an investor in Uber like literally thousands of other people. I believe it’s good business to invest in products and companies you love, if you can.]

Previously: Investment Partner at Kleiner Perkins, built products for people @Square & @Google. I'm told I talk fast.
How work, business and society face massive, technology-driven change. Curated by Tim O’Reilly, Steven Levy and Lauren Smiley, in conjunction with the Next: Economy Summit coming to San Francisco in November.
Whether on an app screen, a web browser, or a wearable watch face, design is one of the most important drivers of consumer engagement. From flat design to Material design, I analysed what trends have evolved, and share a few of my insights with you — what are these trends? Why are they beneficial to the user? And how are they created?
Let’s look at how flat design and Material design came into play and evolved to the trends we see today.
Instead of incorporating a wide array of gradients and shadows, shifting to a ‘flat design’ creates a lighter aesthetic in the app. This means using negative space — instead of gradients, shadows, etc. — can create a simpler interface, focusing only on having core information and removing design elements that are not productive as itself and to the user flow.
Lighter design removes distraction to help guide the user’s eye to meaningful content on the screen, enabling easier navigation while also providing a sleek, modern aesthetic to the brand itself.
Reducing the number of fonts on a screen can reveal the power of typography. Instead of using different typeface and leveraging different characteristics — e.g. italics, bold, semi-bold — and different font sizes can better differentiate discrete areas of content.
Embracing a singular typeface across an entire app drives consistency not only for branding, but also across channels — e.g. app, mobile site, website — thus optimising the mobile elements across the omnichannel experience. Also, users prefer the simplicity of having one typeface to scroll through in identifying relevant content.
While previously lines and dividers were used to clearly delineate specific sections or categories within a screen, adding these elements can result in dense, crowded interfaces. Straying away from lines, interfaces which leverage clustered blocks of content separated by spaces have the advantage of freeing up that space and establishing a clean look.
The removal of explicit lines and dividers provides a modern look that focuses on functionality; for example, images and/or fonts can be bigger, providing visual clarity and improved ease of use. Leveraging space instead of drawing lines helps to define different sections in a non-obtrusive manner.
As users’ preferences shift toward a simpler interface, usage of big fonts and striking colors get more common to make a certain data the center of focus. Highlighted data can vary according to target customers.
Leveraging increased font size and/or a pop of color draws the users’ attention to a particular area of the screen — without an obtrusive, heavy-handed push or command to do so. As a result, users can access information more quickly, providing an easier navigation and information-gathering experience.
Micro-interactions are small visual enhancements (for example — an animation, a sound etc.) that occur around a use case. These scenarios may include completing a transaction, favoriting an item, or prompting a pop-up message. These interactions are subtle, but they differentiate the product by pointing to the attention the right element.
These micro-interactions can be leveraged as a signal to prompt the user while accomplishing a task — e.g. adjusting a setting — creating a small piece of content like a pop-up message. Apps which have well-done micro-interactions considered easier, more fun, and more engaging by their users.
The usage of simpler color schemes became a trend after the introduction of flat design in 2013, which embraces clarity and simplicity. As a result, designers and users alike prefer the usage of smaller number of colors, aiming for a clean look.
Usage of color is essential in creating a certain mood, guiding the user’s area of focus, and communicating a brand. By using fewer colors, the brand identity can be reflected more clearly. In addition, users may prefer this aesthetic as it removes the distraction that too many colors can cause, and it better highlights key features, improving navigation through the app’s flow.
Previously, interfaces were centered around the principle of skeumorphism, a design principle that takes cues from original structures or objects (for example, digital calendar resembling a paper desk calendar, 3D ‘depth’ on app icons, the shutter click sound of a mobile phone). Now that flat design has shifted away from this principle, it opens up the opportunity to create depth in new ways. Primarily, using layers helps create this feeling of depth and dimension, creating a more ‘tangible’ experience.
An implication of flat design was the risk of being ‘too flat’ — with so much subtlety, how can the user navigate and engage, given their conditioning to a 3D physical (and previously digital) world? Layers provide the ability to show one item is on top of another by taking full advantage of the z-axis. Layering and increasing depth helps identify the relationship between different items, and draws attention to certain items.
Ghost buttons are transparent buttons, having no color fill. Their borders are very thin-lined, and the shape itself is basic — such as a rectangular or squared, with right angle or softened edges. Text in these buttons are simple and minimal.
These subtle buttons can grab the user’s attention while still seeming clean, trendy, and unobtrusive. It also allows for there to be a hierarchy of buttons on the screen — if there are different buttons on the screen — if there are different buttons in the same page, they may be designed and placed with prioritisation (e.g. ghost buttons for optional or intermediate steps). In some cases for material design, subtle shadows are used to help users perceive that hierarchy.
With integration of gyroscopes and motion sensors, consumer devices are able to detect movement. With this, interaction between user and the device moves beyond the click and extends real life gestures to the screen.
Users are intuitive about gestures. When asked how to delete an item, users tried to move the item out of the screen regardless of age, sex and gender. Enhances user experience with less taps and more scrolling, applications become more interactive by positioning the screen more than just a touch target.
Through software innovation, designers now have the ability to take advantage of controlling movement with their style sheets. Motion-based design elements can be seen in a variety of forms, including transitions, animations and even on texture to mimic 3D depth. The use of motions within the design helps users to engage with and internalise content, differentiating that element or data/object from others to highlight its importance.
Motions can draw user’s attention to a specific area — or help to distract from it. By showing a visual response, it can increase engagement, delighting the user with a ‘wow’ factor.
Instead of navigating through multiple pages to complete a single transaction, a single screen can include those intermediate steps and reduce the time and effort spent in app. For example, a form can automatically open or highlight the subsequent input area when the user completes the previous field.
Mobile users prefer to complete their transactions in an app easily and quickly while they are on-the-go. Designing the experience of the applications according to this insight minimizes the effort for the user and can increase the rate of conversion and/or frequency of app opens.
Design standards is the process of setting the visual language at the beginning of the project by determining standards such as colors, icons and global padding.
Setting the standards of the design helps to create consistency within the application and between different platforms. It minimizes possible errors while bringing the project into life and makes it easier to make modifications in the future.
A prototype is a preliminary or early working version of a product. The usage of prototypes can provide valuable insights into the functionality of design, highlighting potential changes needed in order to enhance the user experience without costing a major loss in designer time and effort.
By creating these low-cost ‘experiments’, prototyping can clarify the key components of the project, including the feature scope and requirements. It leaves essential time and resources to learn from the experiment and iterate on the product in an insight-driven process.
UX / Visual Designer at Monitise. Design Process Strategist. Public Speaker.
a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

I know he’s got at least some money, because he’s buying Grey Goose. People with money don’t buy cheap vodka, or cheap rum, or cheap whiskey. They invest in the good stuff, like Grey Goose. Three bottles of it.
His suit radiates “expensive”, the kind of expensive that involves several tailors and a high-end store in Manhattan. We aren’t in Manhattan, though. We’re in a fluorescent-lit Ralph’s in a suburban city that sleeps from 10 PM to 6 AM. Men who belong in Manhattan look out of place here.
“How are you doing tonight, sir?” The woman working the register asks pleasantly enough. My eyes are fixated on her hands, veins prominent through tired skin, as they scan bottle after bottle. His own fingers drum on the register wall impatiently. A gold band catches lights and gleams from his ring finger.
“Fine. Now, if you wouldn’t mind speeding up this damn process, I’ve got places to be.” He snaps, taking a black leather wallet out of his jacket pocket, a shiny credit card protruding from the top. It looks like it’s made of silver. He holds it gingerly between his index finger and middle finger, and now that his hands are busy, he begins tapping his foot on the linoleum. There is a faint, distinct rhythm, but I can’t place where I’ve heard it before.
“Yes, of course. I’m sorry.” She says softly, taken aback. The last of the bottles, a handle of Jack Daniel’s, rolls its way to the end of the conveyor belt. “I need your identification, please.”
The man heaves an audible sigh. “My ID… Do I appear to be someone underage? Excuse me, ma’am, for finding my way into your line. I thought cashiers were more competent than this.” He’s irritated, and I can see the blood rising from his neck to his temples. The only thing I can think of is the epinephrine that is coursing through his system, raising his heart rate and accelerating his breathing.
“It’s just store policy, sir,” her voice is small. She does not combat him once.
He pulls out his wallet again and nearly shoves his driver’s license in her face. “This is ridiculous,” he mutters.
The cashier is silent as she takes his credit card and slides it through the machine. She holds it in her left hand like it’s an explosive, ready to implode at the slightest, misguided touch. When the computer signifies that the transaction is complete and the receipt finally prints, he exhales loudly. He leaves the line with four bags of alcohol. I wonder how long those bottles will last him.
I shuffle my feet forward, in awe of the man’s audacity to be so outwardly rude. I glance up, noticing the cashier’s face for the first time. Her brown eyes look heavy, and there is discoloration around her neck, barely visible above the collar of the uniform polo. An amalgamation of black and blue and yellow mix together, in vague forms of fingerprints, marring the translucence of her skin. Time slows down and I swear I can see the fibrin forming the intricate meshwork to mend the broken capillaries. I should be more shocked by this sight. I should not be standing here complacent.
“How are you today, ma’am?” She asks, tone betraying defeat, as I watch her put the few cans of soup into a grocery bag. There’s a cut on the side of her right hand that has been hastily and poorly covered by a flimsy band aid that I did not see before. The wound appears to be somewhat old, darkened by days of healing. Thrombin to fibrinogen to fibrin. I wonder how often her body must endure this cycle of blood-clotting.
“Fine, thank you,” I say distractedly. Maybe it is because my mind is still on the Manhattan man, or because I am too caught up in breaking down biological reactions, or because I don’t want to think about the possibility of abuse, but I don’t ask “How are you” in return. The synapse of that thought is dead before it even had a chance to come to the forefront of my mind.
I pay for my groceries with old, crumpled bills and leave hurriedly with a bag in each hand. As soon as I’m out the door it dawns on me that I didn’t reciprocate the question. I slow down my pace and with each step, out the door, onto the pavement, then the asphalt, I feel strange. I didn’t bother to look at her name tag. I didn’t ask how she was... I didn’t ask how she was.
How many customers had she seen, but they had not seen her? How many days can we go through without taking the time to leave our own busy thoughts and comfort behind and extend basic courtesy to one another? Who was I but just another person who left that woman’s presence without acknowledging that she was worthy of a mere question? Perhaps that “How are you” was what she desperately needed in that moment, to have a voice, to feel valued, to feel human, to know that someone cares. I am no better than the man before me who had completely disrespected her. In a sense, I am worse; I have no alcohol or expensive suit to use as excuses, only my own innate selfishness and apathy.
The car is still parked as I sit in the driver’s seat, staring out the windshield at nothing in particular. Looking down at my own hands, I realize in my near 19 years of existence that they have not seen even half the scope of human suffering that is undeniably present in this world. I close them into fists and feel weak.
DNA cannot code for compassion. There is an underlying source of empathy, burying itself in the microscopic spaces between the sequences of A’s and T’s and C’s and G’s, that does not come from myself. I pray that the man in the suit finds wholeness in something far more lasting than the satisfaction of an empty bottle. I pray that the cashier is heard and finds solace in a source of comfort far greater than anything any human could ever provide. I pray that I may become someone who asks how others are doing before they even have the opportunity to ask me.
Thrombin to fibrinogen to fibrin. Mistake to consequence to learning.
These are the ways we heal and grow.
constantly seeking and yearning.
Here there is hope, humor, and help as you deepen your connection to others, yourself, and to your work.
70 years ago, there was no visual technology to broadcast the aftermath of the a-bomb dropped just 3 days before in Hiroshima. On August 9th 1945 at 11.02am, survivors like Shigemi Fukahori — aged 14 at the time — had no idea that they were also victims of a nuclear weapon dropped by a US B-29 plane.
“When I heard the explosion, I had no idea it was an atomic bomb,” Fukahori tells me as we meet in a back room in Urakawa Cathedral, where he is now a parishioner aged 84. “But it was so loud, the ground shook incredibly hard. The moment my body felt the ripples of the explosion, I knew that this was an attack on a scale none of us had ever experienced before.”
Fukuhori, like many others who survived the attack, did not turn to media in the immediate aftermath for information. “Back in those days, there was no TV or the internet so it was impossible to see what the damage looked like unless you were physically present where it happened,” he says. “Either way, we didn’t know the exact weapon dropped in Hiroshima just three days before; all we heard was that it fell victim to ‘a new kind of bomb’. The same phrase had been used on the radio with this attack on Nagasaki. But none of us had the time to process the science behind the attack; we were just shocked with what we saw on the ground.”
The attack on Nagasaki was an outcome of a plan overturned at the last minute by the US forces. Despite setting their sights onto Kokura, another city also in Kyushu prefecture, they switched their target to Nagasaki at the last minute. The sunny weather there was a better opportunity to maximise the nuclear technology; more exposure to heat meant the more damage was going to be done.
Fukuhori was inside a factory 3.4 km away from the epicentre, where he had taken a day off from a Christian summer school when the atomic bomb had dropped. “I survived the attack scarless precisely because I was inside a building in the shade, away from the sun,” he said. “The same applies to my father, who survived because he was working at a weapons factory, which could withstand any kind of attack. But I never found the bodies of my mother, my two brothers and two sisters who were within less than 1km of epicentre; the war had forced them to study at home, which like all homes were made out of wood.”
A few years after the attack, Fukahori left for Tokyo to pursue his studies in theology at university. It was only upon his return after completing his studies that he had learnt of the weapon and saw first hand how it had affected his community; Christians who were regular attendees of the Urakami Cathedral and lived in the area.
“As the men were away fighting when the attack happened, it was the women and children who lived in these who suffered most in the years to come,” he recalls. “Many of the women I know had developed Keloid scars as a result of the radiation from the bomb. Most of these women are now dead; when they were alive, they would not come out of the house as they felt judged for their appearance. Many also chose to remain single, as they were also afraid they would give birth to disabled children.”
70 years later, Urakawa cathedral projected a video on its newly reconstructed building to take audiences on a journey to retrace the series of events. “Because I am alive, I feel a sense of responsibility to continue living the message of peace,” he says. “As the head of a Virgin Mary statue survived the radiation with black scorched eyes, it’s become a symbol of those who endured the pain in years to come, piecing together what had happened to them. Nagasaki must be the last to go through this ordeal.”
Independent Journalist @motherboard @IndexCensorship ex-@AP Deputy Video News Editor. Human rights, arts & current affairs in digital era. @Cambridge_Uni alum
We publish informed perspectives on fringe topics and add outside narratives to perennial stories — voices worth hearing.

Pretty much every new app has the following problem: lots of people sign up but don’t stick around.
I frequently get asked what are benchmarks for retention after one day or one week. My answer tends to be the same for products in the early days:
Most people look too much at the “big data” and try to draw conclusions. In the early days of a product you have to talk to people. You need anecdotes much more than data. You could say The plural of anecdote is data.
To collect anecdotes, you have to talk to actual users. The best users to call are ones who can help you understand why they tried your product and what hooked them. I like to look for bouncebacks. Bouncebacks are users that have tried your product, bailed immediately and didn’t find it useful, came back to try again for some reason (at least 1 week later, or even better, 1 month later), and then got hooked.
The first step is to identify some bounceback users to call. Select users who you now consider highly active users, but had a specific gap between the time of first signup, and getting into habitual use. Look for different ranges of time between their first attempt to use the product, and when they returned and got hooked. Reach out to them and ask if they would be willing to chat with you about their experiences with your product. It is good to target having around 10 conversations. It is ok to divide the conversations up among different team members.
Ask the following four questions:
Try to find patterns in their answers to help you understand:
From these patterns, you can invest in revising your marketing and improving your product and onboarding. Revamp your messaging to focus more on the messages that brought people back and got them engaged. Update your product and onboarding to simplify whatever the users did the second time to get fully engaged.
A lot of this I learned from a project that Twitter ran with Adaptive Path in 2009 to start understanding our user growth challenges. @stop, @trammell and @ladylexy were instrumental in putting together that first set of user research and learnings that led to a lot of the growth work Twitter invested in over the subsequent years.
We learned from early users that many of them signed up for Twitter and thought it was just a megaphone. When they had nothing to say, and didn’t otherwise understand the product they bailed. When they later heard about how valuable Twitter could be if they followed their reverend or the food truck that broadcasts its location every day, they came back and tried again. But this second time they specifically sought out people to follow and had a good experience. We rapidly rebuilt our onboarding to focus much more on following and finding the right people which caused significant increases in how many users were activated after signing up. We revised our messaging to talk much more about finding and following the right people on Twitter instead of talking about tweeting and broadcasting.
I recommend doing this exercise of interviewing new bounceback users every 6 months. You’ll learn a lot about how to keep improving your adoption and activation.
Product Guy. I have worked on Twitter, Facebook Connect, Zazzle, LinkedIn, RealPlayer. Partner at Greylock, looking for crazy new things.



Airbnb, Disney World, Uber and Nest. They are all phenomenal products, which together are worth over $135 billion! Not only do their services deliver great value, their experiences are so well thought out and executed that their strategy goes unnoticed. In other words, their user experiences are invisible.
When designing the experience and interactions of a product, the most common question I ask myself is, “What is the least amount of work a user has to do, to achieve their desired outcome?”
Who actually enjoys fiddling around with dropdown menus, input forms and buttons? Sometimes as designers, we can be distracted by unnecessary noise when thinking through an experience. We bring emphasis to ‘beautifully designed forms’ because it’s the easier way out. One method I found quite effective is to think of the end goal and work backwards. This allows you to think beyond UI elements and really focus on what matters.
As designers it is important for us to think more holistically about a product and its experience. Polishing pixels is important but an experience which is so great that the design goes unnoticed is even better.
Jared Spool, an expert on the subjects of usability and design explains how Netflix sent out a survey asking their users what they liked best about their service. Customers replied with “Great selection of movies, recommendation tool was helpful and the overall service was great. However one thing they didn’t mention was the site was super functional, intuitive and well designed.

When booking a place on Airbnb, the real value is when the host wants to accommodate the guest who contacted them. In retrospect, Airbnb could have thousands of ‘available’ places to stay at but if no hosts wants to accommodate you — you’ll have a negative experience.
So what does Airbnb do to fast track you to the real value?
It’s invisible. Searching on Airbnb is quite simple and the forms are very minimal. When you make a search on Airbnb, behind the scenes they use machine learning to detect host preferences.
Without going too in depth, what this means is that they have created a machine learning model that learns host behaviours and preferences for accommodation requests. With this understanding, they can optimise a ‘guest’ search results with ‘hosts’ that are more likely to accept your request as a priority. This makes your experience on Airbnb more meaningful as you’re very likely to receive a quick and successful response from a host.
I am yet to experience an Airbnb host who does not respond to me.

Disney World invested $1billion on a magical wristband. Why? because it gives them the opportunity to create a frictionless, magical experience through invisible design.
It all begins when you book your ticket online and pick your favourite rides. Behind the scenes, they capture everything from you. With this data they are able to crunch your preferences then provide you a calculated itinerary that keeps you on route and stops you from zig zagging back and forth across the park.
This invisible experience also flows into your restaurant booking. When you make the reservation the restaurant host will already know your name. In fact, you can sit anywhere and your food will magically make its way to you! How? The restaurant is fitted out with advanced sensors which open up a whole new world of opportunities for them.
With Disney World knowing where you’re located in their magical theme park, this also opens up a ton of new opportunities to deliver an ever greater experience. Just imagine your children’s favourite characters come to them instead of them have weaving through the swarm of people.
As you can see, great design brings great experiences.
From a business standpoint, being able to optimise every itinerary will allow people to explore more of the park’s top attractions. When visitors spend less time in lines, they can do more and ultimately spend more!

Taxis on-demand.
Who ever thought one screen could disrupt an entire industry?
Waving down a taxi before the Uber days was a nightmare. Stranded on the busy streets on a cold winters morning at 4am in Sydney, is not a great experience.
The design of the Uber experience is phenomenal. From an interaction standpoint, Uber solves all of the consumers uncertainties within one screen.
On the opening of the app (with location services permitted), the user does not have to engage with any UI elements to experience the value of the product. This is a great example of industry leading design thinking. They’ve nailed “What is the least amount of work a user has to do, to achieve their desired outcome?” on the head.
As the app loads:
If you have noticed with the success of Uber, the entire concept of booking cabs has diminished. Uber doesn’t offer the ability to ‘book a cab for tomorrow’. They’ve disrupted and revolutionised the industry standards and expectations.

Current thermostats are expensive, complicated and inefficient. Tony Fadell saw this as a major problem, so he created Nest. As the designer of 18 generations of iPods and 3 generations of iPhones, he applied his learnings in creating a ‘Smart Thermostat’.
Most people don’t program their thermostats for many reasons — for me it’s because it’s too fiddly. The Nest team have come up with an experience so great, it’s literally invisible.
For the first 7 days of installation, the thermostat will learn your preferences and personalised schedule. Some features it accommodates include:
This is great because it’s all done behind the scenes. The only thing required from the user is to set the temperatures during the first week. There’s no more fiddling around with unnecessary UI elements. Hence why Nest was bought out by Google.
Great (invisible) design comes at a great cost.
As we endure technological advances and a better understanding of technology, data, user behaviours and expectations, these experiences become more and more achievable. That is why there has been a surge and uprise in Personal Assistant apps.

They’re all a stepping stone in becoming great experiences. They’re focused on delivering an experience where the ‘processing work’ happens behind the scenes. “As a consumer, why do I need to click through a form to tell you what I need? Is it because we’re still adapting old practices, or is it actually a better experience overall?”
I do believe some of these personal assistant apps are powered by manual work at the moment — but as these startups continue to capture more and more data, the opportunity to automate a lot of the manual work will become available. In the next 5 years, we are going to see technology become more integrated than ever, with experiences also becoming even more seamless. I am absolutely blown away by what the team over at Microsoft Cortana are doing!

I hope you’ve learnt a few things from this article and that you’re able to put these design thinking principles into practice. I challenge you, to start pushing yourself into exploring new ways of experiencing digital products. We’re in a digital age where lots of things are now possible. Don’t conform to patterns and trends, they don’t last.
I would love to hear some of the innovative experiences you’re exploring or have executed! Share them with me: innovation@mizko.net
Follow me on Twitter. Catch me on Facebook.

The first secret of design is … noticing:|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9uOMectkCCs
Disney’s $1 Billion Bet on a Magical Wristbandhttp://www.wired.com/2015/03/disney-magicband/
How Airbnb uses machine learning to detect host preferences:http://nerds.airbnb.com/host-preferences/
All about design
Hackerpreneur is a digital Magazine for iOS that explores the shifting landscape of work, creativity, design, startups and entrepreneurship.

It has been over three years since Steve Jobs died.
Since then, books have been written and movies have been made.
Each has celebrated his legacy and aimed to share the secrets he used to build the largest company in the world; things like attention to detail, attracting world-class talent and holding them to high standards.
We think we understand what caused his success.
We don’t.
We dismiss usable principles of success by labeling them as personality quirks.
What’s often missed is the paradoxical interplay of two of his seemingly opposite qualities; maniacal focus and insatiable curiosity. These weren’t just two random strengths. They may have been his most important as they helped lead to everything else.
Jobs’ curiosity fueled his passion and provided him with access to unique insights, skills, values, and world-class people who complemented his own skillset. Job’s focus brought those to bear in the world of personal electronics.
I don’t just say this as as someone who has devoured practically every article, interview, and book featuring him.
I say this as someone who has interviewed many of the world’s top network scientists on a quest to understand how networks create competitive advantage in business and careers.
The Simple Variable That Explains What Really Causes Career Success
In December of 2013, I interviewed one of the world’s top network scientists, Ron Burt. During it, he shared a chart that completely flipped my understanding of success. Here is a simplified version:
The bottom line? According to multiple, peer-reviewed studies, simply being in an open network instead of a closed one is the best predictor of career success.
In the chart, the further to the right you go toward a closed network, the more you repeatedly hear the same ideas, which reaffirm what you already believe. The further left you go toward an open network, the more you’re exposed to new ideas. People to the left are significantly more successful than those to the right.
In fact, the study shows that half of the predicted difference in career success (i.e., promotion, compensation, industry recognition) is due to this one variable.
Do you ever have moments where you hear something so compelling that you need to know more, yet so crazy that you’d have to let go of some of your core beliefs in order to accept the idea?
This was one of those moments for me. Never in all of the books I had read on self-help, career success, business, or Steve Jobs had I come across this idea.
I wondered, “How is it possible that the structure of one’s network could be such a powerful predictor for career success?
How A Closed Network Impacts Your Career
To understand the power of open networks, it’s important to understand their opposite.
Most people spend their careers in closed networks; networks of people who already know each other. People often stay in the same industry, the same religion, and the same political party. In a closed network, it’s easier to get things done because you’ve built up trust, and you know all the shorthand terms and unspoken rules. It’s comfortable because the group converges on the same ways of seeing the world that confirm your own.
To understand why people spend most of their time in closed networks, consider what happens when a group of random strangers is thrown together:
David Rock, the founder of the Neuroleadership Institute, the top organization helping leaders through neuroscience research, explains the process well:
By understanding this process, we can begin to understand why the world is the way it is. We understand why Democrats and Republicans can’t pass bills with obvious benefits to society. We understand why religions have gone to war over history. It helps us understand why we have bubbles, panics, and fads.
The Surprising Power And Pain Of Open Networks
People in open networks have unique challenges and opportunities. Because they’re part of multiple groups, they have unique relationships, experiences, and knowledge that other people in their groups don’t.
This is challenging in that it can lead to feeling like an outsider as a result of being misunderstood and under-appreciated because few people understand why you think the way you do. It is also challenging, because it requires assimilating different and conflicting perspectives into one worldview.
In one of my all-time favorite movies, The Matrix, the main character, Neo, is exposed to a completely new world. Once he is, he can’t go back. He’s an outsider in the new group, and he’s an outsider in his old life. He’s had an experience that everyone he’s ever met would never understand. This same phenomenon happens when we enter new worlds of people.
On the other hand, having an open network is a huge opportunity in a few ways:
The Revisionist Timeline Of Steve Jobs Success
As a result of pursuing his curiosity in different fields throughout his life, Steve Jobs developed an extremely unique perspective, skillset, and network; one that no one else in the computer industry had. He turned these unique advantages into the largest company in the world by having a razor sharp focus. Within Apple, he cut out people, products, and systems that weren’t world-class.
Many are quick to label parts of Steve Jobs’ life as the ‘lost’ or ‘wilderness’ years. However, when we view his life in retrospect, we see that his diversions were critical to his success.
What is labeled as the magic of Steve Jobs or the quirks of his character become replicable principles we can all follow.
It is from this vantage point that we can begin to understand the following quote from a Steve Jobs interview for Wired in 1995:
Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish.
Throughout human history, all societies including our own have created myths that share one common element, the hero’s journey.
Here’s what the journey looks like according to Joseph Campbell, the originator of the term…
Things are going great. You feel normal and fit in. Then something happens, and you change. You start to feel like an outsider in your own culture. You hide parts of yourself to fit in, but that doesn’t help. You feel called to leave and fulfill part of yourself, but that has a lot of uncertainty. So, you hesitate at first.
Finally, you take the plunge. You go through difficult times as you’re learning to navigate the new world. Finally, you overcome the challenges. Then, you go back to your old culture and have a huge impact because you share the unique insights you’ve learned.
The hero’s journey myth is embedded in everything from our society’s classic movies (i.e., Star Wars) to the heroes we glorify (i.e., Steve Jobs), because it hits on core parts of the human experience.
The field of network science shows us two things. (1) The hero’s journey is the blueprint for creating career success. (2) We can all be heroes. It just takes a little faith as you follow your heart and curiosity into unknown worlds. As Steve Jobs said, “You can’t connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. ”
— —
Other Related Article By Me
— —
I would love to hear your thoughts on how you build open networks! And if you enjoyed, please scroll down and click the “recommend” button.
— —
I write at MichaelDSimmons.com and am the co-founder of Empact. To receive more articles like this one, visit my blog.
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
For the majority of my child and adult life I never considered myself a “morning person.” I was a night owl. During my architecture school career I worked late through the night and slept in the mornings. When I started working at an Architecture firm, I conformed to getting up at 7am… but I didn’t enjoy it. I would get up as late as possible, skip breakfast, rush to work, and then feel like I was trying to catch up the rest of the day.
This type of routine will take its toll on your physical and mental well-being and majorly impact your productivity.
Now, I work from home for myself on various businesses, and I happily wake up around 5:30 am each day. Even on weekends, I’m usually up by 7 am. It could be that I’m enjoying the work I’m doing so much and am accountable to only myself; however, I think it has more to do with the fact that I’ve learned so much about how creating good habits and a morning routine are critical for lifetime success. A morning routine sets the tone for the whole day, and if you do each day right, you’ll do life right.
One of my goals for the beginning of this year was to get into a good morning routine in order to set myself up for the day. It started whenever I read The Miracle Morning by Hal Elrod in January. I knew that not having a good morning routine and feeling overwhelmed and disorganized were connected.
I needed to work smarter, not harder, and the first step was to create good habits.
The first thing I needed to do was quit the belief that I was a “night owl.”
Over the past several months I have been working on “habit stacking” to craft myself a good morning routine that works for me. Habit Stacking is a way to build a new habit into your life by stacking it on top of something you’re currently doing. For example, before I brush my teeth in the morning (current habit) I will meditate (new habit) for 3 minutes. I’ve discovered the personal ritual I have set up for myself has helped put me in the right mindset and offset any morning procrastination. Here’s a previous medium post I wrote about it.
Another great reason to create a morning ritual it is to avoid mental fatigue.
We only have a certain amount of energy and willpower when we wake up each morning, and it slowly gets drained away with decisions. This is especially true if you’re making hundreds of small decisions in the morning that mean nothing yet will affect how you make decisions for the remainder of the day. Try to have the first hour of your day vary as little as possible with a routine.
Avoiding mental fatigue is why Mark Zuckerberg wears the same thing everyday. Knowing exactly how the first 90 minutes of my day looks like is powerful, as it helps me feel in control and non-reactive, which in turn reduces anxiety and ensures I’m more productive throughout the day.

After 6–10 hours without any liquid, you need to rehydrate and wake yourself up. Drinking water is a great way to kickstart your metabolism, especially when it’s ice cold.
A little light stretching in the morning is all it takes to shake off grogginess and limber up for the day ahead. It only takes a few minutes but by doing basic stretches, here’s the ones I do. I use the 7 minute workout app.
When I first heard friends talk about taking cold showers in the morning, I thought they were nuts. Then one random day in mid-February I decided to try it. I’m not going to lie: it sucked. However, I felt so energized and alive after it that I’ve been doing it every day since. If you’re considering it, be prepared for discomfort at first, but also look forward to feeling more refreshed and alive than you have before. Also, it has numerous health benefits
Perhaps the most important part of my routine is clearing my mind so that I can gain focus for the day. I’m very new to meditation. I only added it to my daily life within the past 6 months.
I personally use the Muse headband because, as a beginner, I had trouble learning how to meditate and understand when my mind was drifting. The Muse detects my brain signals to let me know when my brain is calm and focused and when it is not. It is not essential for meditation. I have also heard great things about the app Headspace.
Since beginning the daily habit of meditation I have seen a big improvement in my focus, productivity, and stress levels for the rest of the day.
I’ve been doing bulletproof intermittent fasting since Oct./Nov. of last year, so I only drink BP Coffee in the morning. While the coffee is brewing, I use those few minutes to wash some dishes. No one could ever accuse me of being a “cleaner,” but I enjoy doing the dishes in the morning so I can think through my day. It also makes me feel like I have accomplished something already, which is a great way to start the day.
This 20 minutes of reading has been huge for me. Not only is it enjoyable, but reading books on mindset, personal growth, and business inspires me in the beginning of my day and gets the creative juices flowing. If you’re curious what I’m reading, you can see here.
This part of my morning routine was established more recently and is a creative process. It’s an activity of writing 750 words (around 3 pages) each morning. It’s not blogging or anything that I will ever release to the world. It’s a stream of consciousness of whatever is on my mind, essentially a brain dump on ideas for business, life, and other decisions. Whatever I want to clear my mind of, It gets my brain working and thinking more creatively.
Each morning I write down my goals. First, I write down a long-term goal that I’m working towards. I write this down each day to keep me mindful of my direction so that I don’t go off track. Then, I write down the day’s targets, which are what 3 things I need to accomplish to move me further toward my long-term goal. I usually have my 13-Week Roadmap planned ahead of time that has my goals broken down with a timeline. I’ll delve into this process in another post, but essentially it’s a planning structure so that I know what I should be working on for 3 months at a time. Interested in learning about this? Let me know.
I break down my day in 30 minute increments, enter any calls or appointments I have, and then schedule out my tasks for the day. I always put the most important (coincidentally usually the least enjoyable) first so that I ensure it gets done. I try to never book any meetings or appointments until late in the afternoon if I can help it because my mornings are my sacred hours of peak productivity.
Then I begin working.
I don’t look at my phone, email, facebook, or twitter until after I’ve completed that first big task of my day. I pause my inboxes the night before (using inbox pause) so that, in the morning, if I do need to send out any emails I can do so without being bombarded with any incoming mail. Remember, email is someone else’s request of your time. Prioritize your goals and tasks first before looking at email so you don’t go into reactive mode as opposed to proactive mode.
My morning routine takes just over an hour. I can’t stress enough to you the importance of a great morning routine, as it will set you up for a successful day — and life. With that said, what I do isn’t for everyone. I experimented with a few different things and figured out what worked for me. You should do the same. Soon you’ll know what things work for you, and you’ll enjoy starting your day.
I’d love to hear about your morning routine if you have one. What does the first hour of your day look like?

Cathryn Lavery is a serial entrepreneur dedicated to helping others become their Best Self.
Want to build a morning routine like hers? Use the Self Journal to structure your day and reach any goal faster. It’s live on Kickstarter now


Serial Entrepreneur — Founder of CalmTheHam.com & BestSelf.co
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

I’ve written and rewritten this blog in my head several times over the past few months. As many of you know, I have been recovering from anorexia since April. I was at an Ivy League school, a D-1 athlete and should have been living my dream. Nobody expected me to end up in the hospital with an eating disorder freshman year, especially me. Now that I have had an abundance of time to reflect on the past few years, I understand what precipitated my eating disorder and have gained a new perspective on the world around me as it relates to eating, health and body image.
I have always been a perfectionist in everything I do, pushing myself to my limit and beyond no matter what the endeavor, large or small. In high school I wanted to be a straight A student, a D-1 athlete and, sadly, more important than all, I wanted to be skinny. I followed rules from my parents, rubrics from my teachers, and directions from my coaches to the letter. So in my junior year of high school when my club gymnastics coach told me I needed to lose ten pounds, I was determined to do exactly as he said. At the time, like many girls my age, I was already having body image issues and confusing puberty with getting “fat”. Thinking I was doing what was needed, I began to throw up after dinner. It didn’t take long before I began purging twice a day but I convinced myself that I didn’t have a problem since I never binge ate and only ate “healthy” foods. I began constantly to compare my body to others. I followed fitness and health food accounts on Instagram and became obsessed with being as fit as possible. Despite how close I was to my friends and family, no one knew what was swirling inside my head. And I had absolutely no idea that I was suffering from anorexia.
By the time I got to college last fall, I decided I wanted to stop the purging and feel “normal” again. I focused instead on becoming even more fit. I began doing extra cardio daily in addition to my hours of gymnastics, and constantly felt like there was something more I could do. I gave into the “gluten free” fad and descended down a slippery slope of eliminating all the “bad” foods from my diet. I downloaded a calorie counter on my phone and I told myself If I was going to be healthy, I was going to be as healthy as possible. I mainly ate salads — and took the dressing off. I drank tons of water to fill myself up. I stopped putting milk in my coffee. My favorite foods — avocados, sushi, peanut butter, bread — became fear foods. I no longer ate carbs, and eventually even the calories in gum seemed to be too much for me. How ironic that my “healthy” lifestyle was nearly killing me.
As I began to get sicker, I pulled away from my friends and family. I obsessed over how I appeared in Instagram and Facebook photos. Around February, I began avoiding eating with people and I was constantly tired, unhappy and cold. My hair was falling out in clumps and my skin was dry and dead looking. I struggled to socialize because all I could think about was food and exercise. The way I looked and what I ate became the most important part of my life. As I deprived my body of nutrients, I deprived my brain (which is normally 60% fat), thus making rational decisions nearly impossible. I was able to convince myself and others that I didn’t have a problem by disguising my food restriction as self discipline. Nobody knew or noticed. I was competing for my team and earning straight A’s. I was even getting compliments on my appearance. By March, I had deemed almost all foods “bad” except egg whites and greens. I thought of myself as healthier than everyone around me. Little did I know that I had a resting heart rate of 30 and was at risk for cardiac arrest.
In April, the “gradual” weight loss abruptly became drastic. My kidneys were failing and my organs were shutting down. My body was deep in starvation mode. Finally I recognized how weak and sick I felt and I was scared. My mom was shocked by my Facebook pictures. Still, I didn’t connect my symptoms with my eating habits until my mom arrived on a red-eye, helped me navigate the healthcare system and I was admitted into the ICU. On April 15th, I began the toughest chapter of my life thus far: recovery.
I spent two and a half weeks in the hospital, much of it on strict bed-rest with continuous monitoring of my heart and other vitals, during the initial slow, steady, often painful, refeeding process. When my heart rate was finally stable, I was discharged and placed on a strict meal plan, implemented by my mother. Once the body has experienced starvation and the nearly fatal process of shutting down, even a small weight loss can trigger the whole process again, even many months after weight has been restored. Eating five or six meals a day is nearly impossible to do alone: recovery from anorexia requires the full support of family. I was able to finish those last five weeks of my freshman year because my mother prepared and served the six meals a day prescribed by my doctors. But I arrived home only to be hospitalized again for a week. Just the increased activity and slight diet change while packing up and flying home had sent my heart rate plunging again.
It was easier for me to be motivated to start eating again when I was in the hospital setting and so clearly sick. As I have gotten better, I have become more aware of how much of my daily life as a young woman, a college student, and an athlete, encourages disordered eating. As soon as I began recovery, I unfollowed all food and health accounts on Instagram and deleted my snapchat in order to quiet the noise about weight loss and fitness that surrounds so much of today’s media. I needed to stop seeing what other people were eating, or what they were doing for exercise or how they looked in their gym clothes. I just needed to get better.
After two hospitalizations, I really understand how dangerous it is to try and alter your own body. If I look frail and bony at age eighteen, how am I going to look when I’m 60? Or how about 80? Will I even make it to 80? The thought itself is scary. In order to stay healthy, I have to remember that good health is something that is continuous and cannot be compared to others. This is my one body; we don’t get “re-do’s” when it comes to our own genetics and it may sound crazy but when I was sick this thought didn’t occur to me. I only cared about changing my body in the immediate and how I looked in the moment. If I felt full, I was fat. If I was hungry, I was skinny and there was nothing in between. Everything about eating and my body image felt urgent and dire, like eating the yolk of an egg would suddenly cause my pants to tighten or that obesity was going to sneak up on me one hour after eating a scoop of ice cream. I never thought about the effect that trying to change my outward appearance had on my heart, kidneys and long-term health.
Now I cringe when I hear someone mention how they want to go “gluten free” to lose weight. Or how they want to go “ano” for two weeks to get a beach body. I struggle to walk into places like Panera Bread or Starbucks where they have calories plastered next to every item. They fuel the ideas that precipitate eating disorders: that some foods are “bad”, or that we are supposed to feel guilty after eating a calorically dense food or that we have to earn our foods before we eat them. Food is food and it is not something that needs to be earned. Our bodies need a balanced diet regardless of whether we exercised that day or not.
So, as many of my classmates and friends have travelled this summer, held prestigious internships or taken summer courses, I’ve been recovering. I have spent my summer in doctors’ offices and labs and therapy sessions week after week and it has been as exhausting and taxing as a full-time job. My hair has slowly stopped falling out, my skin has light in it again, and I’ve gotten stronger. Even though I have been recovering for almost four months now, I still have to carefully manage my intake and exercise to be sure that my heart rate and blood pressure don’t drop. It shocked me to learn that even after regaining the weight I lost, my body still has so much more healing to do. I will be working hard at my recovery for a long time.
As terrifying and hard as many moments of this process have been so far, the main thing I feel is relief. Rather than wishing to be skinny, I wish for happiness. Rather than admiring girls whose bones show, I admire girls who can eat foods they enjoy without anguish. I wish to be able to get an ice cream cone with my little nieces and nephew and not cry inside. I wish fully and mindfully to experience college and life, not just see how it makes me appear on Instagram. But most of all, I wish for health and I wish to never damage my body again.
Brown University ‘18, avocado and redwood tree loving, Public Health major. This is my (rocky) journey to a life free of Anorexia Nervosa 🌻
Home to some of the best articles on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.

1. If I don’t create, I won’t affect the world around me.
2. Writing is the minimum viable product of my life.
3. There’s no despair that can’t be held at bay with words.
4. When people ask what I do, I have something to point to.
5. Having a career and paying bills is treading water for me – writing gives me a purpose.
6. I have stories I need to tell and beliefs I need to share.
7. Writing can change lives, and there are lives that need to be changed.
8. If I don’t challenge myself, I will atrophy – without writing, my legacy would be a very well curated Netflix library.
9. My writing is my own roadmap – it helps me find my way.
10. I write to meet people and to connect with others who I might never have had any contact with otherwise.
11. Some might say sharing and creating the written word is the entire point of the Internet.
12. Because I fucking love the way simple letters look on a minimalist background.
13. Writing is the only career that has ever felt right to me. When I write I belong.
15. All my family write. And always have. It connects us all.
16. Writing enables me to discover things about myself that I never knew.
17. Right now, we are drafting the future of digital publishing – I wouldn’t trade my place in that for anything.
18. Writing is its own form of innovation.
19. Writing is a skill that can be applied to and is needed by every industry, technology and platform.
20. Being able to write is one of the greatest accomplishments of humanity.
21. My girlfriend likes writers ;)
22. Writing demonstrates more than just an ability to put words on a page – it shows dedication, project management and marketing. It can be a point of professional differentiation.
23. Writing can help me relax and breathe and take stock of my life.
24. People want and need great content, they’re reaching out for it and searching for it.
25. No matter how old I get, even when I’m too weak to do much else, I’ll be able to write.
26. It stops me from being bored in a way that TV can never quite match.
27. Because there are some incredible words out there that are fucking fun to write. Like floccinaucinihilipilification. I don’t even know what that means, but I love it.
28. My thoughts are my own and could never come the same way from anyone else. Because everyone is unique. That’s amazing.
29. Because it gives me something to do on the train.
30. I want people to one day look up to me the way I look up to the writers that I love and respect. I know that sounds egotistical, but I don’t care. It’s honest.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

One week ago, a man brought a gun into a movie theater in Lafayette, Louisiana at the showing of comedian and actress Amy Schumer’s new film Trainwreck. Below is an open letter I have written to her in response:
~
Dear Amy Schumer,
This week, #Aurora and #Lafayette were trending on Twitter at the same time; one tragedy was just closing in court and one was just beginning in a theater. All of this transpired on social media just as we marked the one month anniversary since a mass shooting in #Charleston — yes, that was a hashtag, too.
All of this may seem like it’s playing out on your computer — a safe world away from where you live and work in Hollywood. But as a woman, a daughter and sister, a national figure, and a role model, you have a real stake in gun violence happening all around you.
Your movie — which was so well-received, so brilliant, so you — will now forever have this shooting attached to it. You’ve been caught in the middle of our country’s terrifying, unending war with itself, our sick and twisted relationship with the gun lobby, which tells us we need guns for anyone, anywhere, anytime. Search your movie “Trainwreck” on Google and a scroll-down suggestion will now be “Trainwreck shooting.”
A showing of your film — an honest, unapologetic celebration of women’s rights to our bodies, decisions, and independence — was the place a middle-aged man who, “opposed to women having a say in anything,” chose to commit a mass shooting.
I know the guilt, the sadness, the hole in your heart you’re feeling. I know the crushing anxiety you have for Jillian Johnson and Mayci Breaux and their families. I know the sudden feeling that you are not safe anywhere anymore, the numbness that whisks through your limbs and makes you forget that you’re human and that you’re in control. I know all of this. Not because I was in your exact shoes, but because I own a different make of them.
2012 was the worst year of my life. It was the year America saw the shooting of Trayvon Martin, the shooting in Aurora, the shooting at the Sikh Temple in Wisconsin, the shooting of Jordan Davis, the shooting at the mall in Portland, and the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School.
My mother survived that last one.
Six of her colleagues — all women — were killed, as were 20 first-graders. After the shooting, I dedicated my life’s work to gun violence prevention, and what I noticed immediately was that women are taking the reins in the movement. From the voices of mothers who lost their children to those of daughters who lost their mothers. From the calls to action by young women on campuses to women who work and are raising children they want to protect, in communities of all types. Women have truly begun to lead the gun violence prevention movement — and they are winning.
Women are our teachers, our protectors, our shielders. Women weep in public and in private for the lives we’ve lost, and they’re not afraid to scream at the cameras and go toe-to-toe with monsters who perpetuate these crimes on the streets and in boardrooms. Women are very simply the ultimate moral base in our battles for peace and justice throughout the world.
Women also bear the brunt of the harassment and violence perpetrated against our movement. The hatred and trolling of women fighting for gun reform is specifically twisted to become gendered threats and attacks. They reference rape, “setting us in our place,” obeying men and shutting us up, and overall they simply exemplify the worst of a patriarchy obsessed with the symbol and purpose of guns.
Of course, these extremists are barely a fraction of gun owners in America. But this very vocal minority is very afraid because what we’re advocating is — in their minds — the ultimate emasculation. Women telling men to tone it down with their guns, showing them real data that proves guns don’t actually make them safer. They feel vulnerable and so they call us names to shame us. They use their arsenals and state-willed unregulated access to guns to threaten us.
In the past few months, you produced a fake commercial for an episode of your show that makes a striking point about gun accessibility and the idiocy of our country’s thought processes on issues disproportionately affecting our generation. After a young woman (you) must go through an array of people to get approval to use birth control, the pharmacist reluctantly gives her the pills. She walks away shocked and disgruntled. Then a boy, maybe 10 years old, comes to the front desk and asks for a gun. The pharmacist slings one across to him and says, “Here you go! And remember, it’s your right!”
You get it.
All of these problems — the disgusting comments and harassment we receive on Twitter and other social media platforms, the obsession of many mass shooters (see the Isla Vista case) with anti-feminism and anti-women ideals, the over-idolization of firearms and fetishization of what they stand for, and the easy access to guns all stem from the same group of core ideologies that we must work to shut down.
We must shut them down because every day in the United States, five women are murdered with a gun. Women in our country are 11 times more likely to be murdered with a gun than women in other high-income countries. And from 2001 through 2012, 6,410 women were murdered in the United States by an intimate partner using a gun — more than the total number of U.S. troops killed in action during the entirety of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars combined. Women of color are particularly disproportionately impacted by gun violence. These are mothers, daughters, sisters, our best friends.
This is the experience of women in a country overshadowed by rampant, targeted gun violence and fear and hatred of women by people who are armed. This is not freedom — at least not for women.
Amy Schumer, I and many other Millennials look up to you so much. You are our generation’s epitome of what it means to be a strong, powerful, self-aware champion for the experiences and truths of being a woman and an American today. I admire your unapologetic, unwavering stature and your ability to laugh at yourself while actually pinning the joke on the audience to address often uncomfortable truths. In fact, I have nearly memorized the very end of the speech you gave at the Ms. Gala award ceremony. You said:
“I am a woman with thoughts and questions and shit to say. I say if I’m beautiful. I say if I’m strong. You will not determine my story — I will. I will speak… and I will never apologize to the frightened millions who resent that they never had it in them to do it. I stand here and I am amazing, for you. Not because of you… I am myself. And I am all of you…”
I know deep down that the tweet you sent after the shooting was not all that you’ve got. And we need your voice in this movement. We need your help.
Join your colleagues Sarah Silverman and Kristen Schaal. Join our movement. Write an op-ed. Support an organization. Demand change. Be a voice for our generation and for women — two groups who make up most of the victims of the gun violence in our country.
As you said and as I’ve learned, what truly matters in life is how you decide to write your own story. And in doing so, don’t apologize to the frightened millions who resent that they never had it in them to do it. Instead, show them it can be done.
Daughter of Sandy Hook survivor, student activist for safer communities, gun violence prevention advocate. #Fight4AFuture #Fight4The33 #NotOneMore
humandevelopmentgroup.org

Forget overpriced schools, long days in a crowded classroom, and pitifully poor results. These websites and apps cover myriads of science, art, and technology topics. They will teach you practically anything, from making hummus to building apps in node.js, most of them for free. There is absolutely no excuse for you not to master a new skill, expand your knowledge, or eventually boost your career. You can learn interactively at your own pace and in the comfort of your own home. It’s hard to imagine how much easier it can possibly be. Honestly, what are you waiting for?




edX — Take online courses from the world’s best universities.
Coursera — Take the world’s best courses, online, for free.
Coursmos — Take a micro-course anytime you want, on any device.
Highbrow — Get bite-sized daily courses to your inbox.
Skillshare — Online classes and projects that unlock your creativity.
Curious — Grow your skills with online video lessons.
lynda.com — Learn technology, creative and business skills.
CreativeLive — Take free creative classes from the world’s top experts.
Udemy — Learn real world skills online.




Codecademy — Learn to code interactively, for free.
Stuk.io — Learn how to code from scratch.
Udacity — Earn a Nanodegree recognized by industry leaders.
Platzi — Live streaming classes on design, marketing and code.
Learnable — The best way to learn web development.
Code School — Learn to code by doing.
Thinkful — Advance your career with 1-on-1 mentorship.
Code.org — Start learning today with easy tutorials.
BaseRails — Master Ruby on Rails and other web technologies.
Treehouse — Learn HTML, CSS, iPhone apps & more.
One Month — Learn to code and build web applications in one month.
Dash — Learn to make awesome websites.




DataCamp — Online R tutorials and data science courses.
DataQuest — Learn data science in your browser.
DataMonkey — Develop your analytical skills in a simple, yet fun way.




Duolingo — Learn a language for free.
Lingvist — Learn a language in 200 hours.
Busuu — The free language learning community.
Memrise — Use flashcards to learn vocabulary.




TED-Ed — Find carefully curated educational videos
Khan Academy — Access an extensive library of interactive content.
Guides.co — Search the largest collection of online guides.
Squareknot — Browse beautiful, step-by-step guides.
Learnist — Learn from expertly curated web, print and video content.
Prismatic — Learn interesting things based on social recommendation.




Chesscademy — Learn how to play chess for free.
Pianu — A new way to learn piano online, interactively.
Yousician— Your personal guitar tutor for the digital age.

UPDATE: Full list including the best of your suggestions can be also found here.

Written by @kristynazdot, founder and CEO of maqtoob.com — app discovery platform for inspiring entrepreneurs. At the moment, it features 1,500+ handpicked tools for startups, small businesses, and freelancers.
and she was that girl who wanted to be happy | CEO @maqtoobtools
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
I never in my life thought I would be writing an article like this.
As many people know I am a strong supporter of AirBNB. Over the last 2+ years, I have hosted over 700 guests in my house and been an ambassador to AirBNB in so many ways, from presenting at a dozen local events educating new hosts, helping new guests become familiar with the platform, writing articles, going on podcasts, running TravelersChat, a Slack community for AirBNB hosts and currently developing a small SaaS app to help hosts. This year I was to speak at the AirBNB Open in Paris, my trip was being paid for by AirBNB. (airfare & accommodation). That’s why the past few days events are so surprising to me.
I wrote this throughout the last few days as this all happened. I wanted to give AirBNB a chance to correct it or give me a real answer before I hit publish. Since they have fallen silent I feel this is my last option to bring attention to this.
9:25 AM, August 14th, 2015
My phone rings with a San Francisco number, the person asked for me by name and said he was calling from AirBNB. I was a little tired, I had woken up at 6:30 AM to let some arriving guests in. But I perked up out of my bed, thinking it must be something about AirBNB Open coming in November. Then the person on the other end of the phone said…
The monotone voice continued to read a short script, telling me my account will be terminated on August 15th. I repeatedly asked why, the voice simply said they would follow up with an email. I was in complete shock, my brain was racing everywhere and I literally started trembling. What the heck is going on?
This is the vague email I received from them minutes after the call.
I have replied three times to the email. I got back a single nearly identical reply with no reason as to their actions.
9:30 AM, August 14th, 2015
I immediately called the country manager for AirBNB. She couldn’t tell me anything, saying that AirBNB HQ didn’t tell her the reason, just that she was aware of it a few days ago and she “fought” for me.
I logged into my account and started looking around. I noticed they had already started canceling reservations and credited my account for the $2,374. Which is just under 50% of future earnings, probably because my cancelation policy is set to strict.
I am absolutely crushed. I have no idea what I could have possibly done wrong. They will not even tell me. I have given so much to the AirBNB community.
My account is to be terminated on August 15th, but I still have to honor guests until next week. Am I even covered under AirBNB’s insurance since they canceled my account & liability?
I have already received multiple emails from guests that were to stay at my place asking why I canceled them. Throughout the day, I replied to them all like this:
I have no idea, no explanation, I feel bad for the guests that were looking forward to a smooth stay on their vacation and now have to deal with this at the last minute.
2:01 PM, August 14th, 2015
I decided to email all three of the founders directly. So far I have not received a response.
This is a letter I sent to the AirBNB founders.
3:16 PM, August 14th, 2015
After I sent this email, I also got a call from my country manager again, she gave me a specific email address to write to. The “Trust & Safety Department”. I sent basically the same email as above.
So far the emails have been opened and read over 350 times, from multiple places around the world. Who knows who these email addresses really go to.
3:46 PM, August 14th, 2015
After looking around on my account trying to see what is going on I see that an iPhone has been logging in all over the USA for 2 months. I have never left Bangkok. I immediately change my password and log out all the sessions on the AirBNB website. I also sent an email to the country manager with the screenshot.
The country manager replied saying she cannot provide any details and I should email another person from now on.
I sent the same email to that new person and also the above screenshot. That person has read the email but never replied.
6:22 PM, August 14th, 2015
The country manager calls me and asks me to coffee at 7:30 PM, and sent an email to me to confirm the meeting.
I go to the coffee shop where she arrives with another person from AirBNB Singapore office. He has just heard about my termination a few hours before. He told me that one of the things that he wanted to do in Thailand was meet me because I am such a huge supporter of AirBNB.
The meeting was basically them telling me they are just as shocked as I am and that they have no clue of what’s going on. We talked about the situation, the whole time my mind is swirling. They offered to buy me dinner, I got an ice tea, I couldn’t eat. After about 30 minutes, I decided to leave. They said they would continue to try and get to the bottom of this. We hugged, said our goodbyes and parted ways, me feeling like I have lost a good friend in addition to my AirBNB hosting job. I just felt sick and no further along than before.
4:26 PM, August 15th, 2015
I received an email that the guest who was to check-in on Monday no longer needs accommodation and the inquiry is now closed. It wasn’t an inquiry but a full booking. I logged into my AirBNB account and see the other guests that were to arrive are now canceled and the funds no longer show as future payouts, not even for 50%. One more guest that is checking on August 15th is still showing as a reservation.
Tell you what, my last guest is going to be treated like royalty.
9:06 PM, August 15th, 2015
I decided to send another message to the founders.
10:45 PM, August 15th, 2015
I greeted my final guests into my home, who would be here for two days, leaving on Monday. Meeting them just outside as the taxi dropped them off. We said our hellos and went inside. I showed them how the house’s electronic door & lighting works. As they said hellos to my cats I carried their bag up to their room. I answered a few questions of where things were and how to get around in Bangkok. Making sure they were all settled in I went in my bedroom to get some rest.
8:36 AM, August 16th, 2015
A guest thats been with me for five days checks out while I am still sleeping. They send me an SMS saying thanks for the enjoyable stay.
10:59 PM, August 16th, 2015
I finally received a reply from one of the Founders. Made me feel like something is moving forward, otherwise why reply at all. Immediately after receiving this another email came in from a Michelle said one-word “Reviewing”.

10:00 AM, August 16th, 2015
My last ever guest leaves the house. For the first time my house feels really big and empty.
6:50 PM, August 17th, 2015
Hoping things would be getting fixed now. I decided to leave my reply until Monday evening.
I also sent a quick email to Michelle.
10:50 AM, August 18th, 2015
Still no reply from Michelle, so I sent my a last follow up email.

I have received no quality replies from AirBNB. Not only have I been kicked out of a community I loved, promoted and cared for, but I have lost a substantial portion amount of my monthly income that I depended on.
This very much saddens me, since I have no idea what the reason is, I can only speculate. I have spent hours going over everything & anything in my head, I have drawn a complete blank. Was a guest not happy? Did another host report my account for some reason?
If it was a guest that reported me for something, I would have thought I would be able to correct it. I treat every guest with the utmost respect and dignity, so a complaint like from a guest seems unlikely.
What in the world could I have possibly done to deserve such a drastic move on AirBNB’s part?
If it is so severe to terminate my account, why let more guests stay at my house after my termination date?
I thought the sharing economy was about just that: sharing, transparency and making the world better collectively?
I poured a great deal of myself & time into supporting AirBNB. I have no idea what steps I should take next, this is completely baffling to me. I still feel this is a horrible mistake, total misunderstanding or misinterpreted policy. Surely this was not the company Brian and Joe set out to build when they could barely pay their rent.
If you found any value in this, it would be great of you to scroll down and hit that “Recommend” button. Also “Follow” me to stay updated.

Hi, my name is Kelly Kampen, founder of Dojo, a streetwear company with a mission. Great threads & giving back: 10% of every purchase goes to causes and charities all over the world. I also do Business Development for Oozou an awesome Ruby on Rails development agency. Coming to Bangkok? Stay at my place.Want to talk? Drop me a line at kelly<at>do/dot/jo
Entrepreneur, LifeHacker, AirBNB Superhost, Founder of @DojoThreads Dojo Threads & Gear http://do.jo, Biz Dev @Oozou a Ruby on Rails Agency http://oozou.com
This is my adventrues and thoughts on being an AirBNB Superhost
Here are the lessons I learned building a company to 500 people and $7B in transactions while raising $125M along the way.
I love reading blogs by founders who try to give back and share what they’ve learned building their companies, so today I’ll try and do the same.
When I look back over the last 15 years building 4 different companies (most recently Bigcommerce), here are some things I’d do different if I was to start another company, as well as a few things I wouldn’t change.
If you’re just getting started, keep in mind that it’s at least a 7–10 year journey, so when the going gets tough I found it can be useful to get some perspective from other founders who have gone down the same path.
Stay focused, be positive and know that even when you “get big” it’s still a roller coaster of ups, downs, highs, lows, fun and fu*ks. That’s why having a big, compelling vision and building a great team around you is so important.
Here’s my list. I hope you find it useful.
Things I’d do differently
Things I’d do again
Read more posts like this at my personal blog, BlogMitch.com or follow me on Twitter @mitchellharper
I like building, advising and investing in software companies. Most recently @Bigcommerce co-founder. I also blog at BlogMitch.com
Earlier this week, an interview with the actor Cara Delevingne made the rounds online. In it, the anchors of “Good Day Sacramento” refer to her as “Carla” and then ask her whether she read the novel Paper Towns. (She stars in the film adaptation.)
The interview goes downhill from there, with the interviewers suggesting that she is tired, and that she is not adequately excited about the opportunity to be on Good Day Sacramento, which is the #1 morning show in literally all of Sacramento, and then they tell her to take a nap and cut the interview short.
I am friends with Cara, and the author of the book in question. I spent more than a month with her on tour in Europe and the U.S., and I watched as again and again, she was asked this question. Cara has read the book (multiple times), but the question is annoying — not least because her male costar, Nat Wolff, was almost always asked when he’d read the book, while Cara was almost always asked if she’d read it.
In the past two months, I’ve done something like 300 on-camera interviews. As you get asked the same questions again and again, you develop rote responses as a way of protecting yourself. The rote responses are true — the cast really was like a family; we really are all still friends — but in the repetition, the answers start to feel less and less honest.
For example, I was asked in most interviews how involved I was in the film, and I told the truth, which is that I did basically nothing and sat around all day eating Cheetos and telling everyone they were doing a good job. And then Nat would jump in and say, “John’s being modest. His understanding of the story and characters were vital to us.” But because we were reciting lines more than answering questions, the answer started to feel dishonest to me. At one point between interviews, I said to Nat, “I can’t remember if I even like Cheetos.” And he said, “That’s okay, man. I can’t remember if your understanding of the story was vital to us.”
Look, these are obviously the first worldiest of first world problems, but the whole process of commodifying personhood to sell movie tickets is inherently dehumanizing. The TV people want some part of you, and in exchange for it, they will put the name of your movie on TV. But in that process, you do lose something of your self. (For the record, I don’t get the feeling that the journalists asking the same questions over and over particularly savor the experience, either. But they need their sit-down interview, and we need our publicity, and so the wheel spins on.)
There are bigger problems in the world — in fact, almost every problem in the world is bigger — but if people are going to pay attention to these junket interviews and criticize Cara for responding flippantly to a stupid question, I think context might be helpful.
I was lucky to share most of my interviews with Nat, one of my closest and most trusted friends, and to learn from him how to deal with uncomfortable questions. (For instance, when asked is X a good kisser, or is X is a better kisser than Y, Nat gently explains that he doesn’t answer questions about kissing, because the women he works with should be talked about for their performances in the film not for their kissing.) But I never really got good at junketry. I just sort of gave up.
Like, there’s a line in the beginning of the novel: “Everyone gets a miracle.” The male narrator of the story believes his miracle is Margo Roth Spiegelman, the character Cara plays in the movie. Later in the book, the boy realizes that Margo is not a miracle, that she is just a person, and that his imagining her as a miracle has been terribly hurtful to them both. But still, I was asked over a hundred times, “Who’s your miracle?” At first, I tried to fight it, tried to argue that we must see people as people, that we must learn to imagine them complexly instead of idealizing them, that the romantic male gaze is limiting and destructive to women. That’s the whole point of the story to me.
But eventually, I just started to say, “My miracle is my wife.” (And then Nat would deadpan, “My miracle is also John’s wife. She’s great.”) In the end, rather than fight, I stuck to the script.
Cara, however, refuses to stick to the script. She refuses to indulge lazy questions and refuses to turn herself into an automaton to get through long days of junketry. I don’t find that behavior entitled or haughty. I find it admirable. Cara Delevingne doesn’t exist to feed your narrative or your news feed — and that’s precisely why she’s so fucking interesting.
I write books, including Looking for Alaska and The Fault in Our Stars. (Books are like tweets, except longer.) I also make videos with my brother.
Eu particularmente estou um pouco cansada de ler tantos textos falando mal da minha geração. Tenho vinte e poucos, sou parte da geração Y, millennials, ou sei lá qual é o nome mais hype que estão atribuindo no momento. Tento compreender isso como aquele fenômeno de que toda geração acha que é melhor do que a próxima, mas penso que certos estereótipos que estão sendo criados não valem a pena.
Rolam por aí ideias de que a nossa geração é preguiçosa, de que a gente quer conquistar tudo sem trabalhar duro por isso, de que achamos que somos especiais, e finalmente a mais esquista de todas: a de que não sabemos nos relacionar com as pessoas. Somos superficiais, interesseiros, falta amor. Por causa do Tinder, do Facebook, do Twitter, do botão unfriend e das altas taxas de divórcios.
Então vou dividir com o mundo os meus vinte centavos sobre o assunto: o grande problema é que a gente sabe se relacionar de uma forma mais livre, menos dramática e com menos firulas do que as gerações anteriores. E vou explicar por quê: nós estamos quebrando protocolos sociais.
Sabe aquele seu Tio Francis que despreza seu sonho de trabalhar com desenvolvimento de videogames e sempre que tem a chance fala mal do seu cabelo? Então, ao contrário do que dizem seus outros parentes, Tio Francis não te ama. Esse não é o jeitinho dele de demonstrar afeto. Ele não fala essas coisas porque se preocupa com o seu futuro. Tio Francis é apenas um escroto. Ele gosta de te colocar pra baixo.
Os nossos pais, tios e avós tem o costume de dar muita corda pro Tio Francis, tanto o seu, quanto os Tios Francis individuais de cada um deles. Mandam felicidades no aniversário, fazem reuniões de família para visitá-lo, montam grupo no WhatsApp pra compartilhar umas piadas sem graça e trocadilhos infames feitos com emojis. Essa relação com o Tio Francis, que só traz amargura pra sua vida (seja na forma de reprovação da sua profissão, de desprezo pela sua escolha religiosa ou orientação sexual, de comentários infelizes a respeito da pessoa que você ama) é empurrada com a barriga pra manter aparências e status quo.
E quem se fode nessa equação? Vocezinha(o), que tem que manter na sua vida relações horrorosas baseadas numa eterna punheta social por algum motivo bizarro, como para não machucar os sentimentos da Vovó Matilda, que é mãe do Tio Francis. Ou porque vai ficar chato pro seu irmão, que trabalha na firma dele. Pra quem não sacou até agora, Tio Francis é uma metáfora pra qualquer amigo, “primo de consideração”, parente, namorado ou colega de trabalho. Às vezes, Tio Francis é aquele cara que emprestou uma grana pro seu pai quando ele tava falido. Outras, ele é aquele primo que é racista e homofóbico, mas-é-um-amor-de-pessoa.
E aí que tá: as pessoas da nossa geração não estão dispostas a participar disso. A gente tá de saco cheio de preservar relações tóxicas por causa dos pudores ou pendências de outrem. Nós cortamos o laço mesmo, porque a gente não precisa disso pra viver. Não vamos telefonar, não vamos na festinha de aniversário e com alegria perderemos aquela oportunidade única de visitar o Tio Francis. Não queremos casamentos falidos pra manter aparências, amizades sanguessugas, relações familiares que te consomem e te fazem sentir a criatura mais inútil do planeta. Precisamos, sim, de gente que nos ama, que nos ampara, que aceita as nossas maluquices, ambições e júbilo ao compartilhar um post de gatinhos vestidos como personagens de Game of Thrones.
Aquele papo de que relacionamentos exigem sacrifícios, de que o amor dói mesmo, que relações são difíceis e exigentes, pra gente não tá mais colando. O que é querido, o que eu prezo e quero perto de mim, não é pra machucar. Não é pra doer nem pra me fazer sofrer, é pra ser gostoso, é pra dar aconchego, harmonia e tesão. A gente curte o amor-pássaro do Rubem Alves, que é livre para voar, mas daí pra ele cagar periodicamente na nossa cabeça já não dá.
As nossas relações, pra quem vem de outro background (que carrega consigo outros costumes e hábitos), podem parecer vazias e apenas virtuais, mas não são. Nós encontramos pessoas queridas com tanta frequência como se fazia antigamente? Talvez sim, talvez não. Eu vejo meus amigos mais próximos uma vez por semana. Outros, nunca vi pessoalmente, conheço só pela internet. O que posso dizer é que esses laços são muito intensamente vividos e aproveitados; o nosso tempo (que é raro, porque a gente trabalha pra cacete num sistema falsamente meritocrático e contraprodutivo inventado por pessoas como o Tio Francis) é gasto naquilo que realmente nos interessa e com pessoas que de fato nos fazem sentir bem.
A gente também não se sente culpado por ter relações curtas. Qual o problema de transar com aquele cara do Tinder e nunca mais ligar, se vocês só queriam sexo mesmo? Ou aquela amizade de verão maravilhosa, que foi boa enquanto durou? Pra que tentar ficar achando significado e profundidade em lugares que não precisam disso? A gente já superou o carpe diem, o neoqeav, o nada-acontece-por-acaso e estamos em paz com a noção de que relações humanas não duram — e nem precisam durar — para sempre. E isso não significa que somos frios, afinal a gente faz vaquinha virtual pra financiar o projeto artístico, intercâmbio e cirurgia do cachorro de gente que nem conhecemos.
Portanto, caros antecessores e precedentes, acho legal avaliar e compreender que fazer as coisas de um jeito diferente do de vocês (e isso vale pra relações humanas, formação, empregos e modus operandi no geral) não significa fazer errado. Pode ser que a gente queira abraçar o mundo, salvar todos os golfinhos e criar o milésimo grupo de apoio para algum problema (sério, vocês já viram quantos a gente faz?). Mas talvez a motivação pra falar tão mal da nossa geração seja, bem lá no fundo, o desejo de ter a nossa fluidez.
Formada em publicidade e ainda não sabe o que fazer com isso.
Some years ago, right after we caught our breath from the financial crisis, I took my then-young-teenaged son to dinner to celebrate the end of the school year. He got to choose the restaurant; naturally, he chose a steak house.
As we were being seated, I recognized Dick Fuld. The Dick Fuld. Former CEO of Lehman Brothers, whom I had covered as a research analyst at Bernstein. I stopped, said hello, met his daughter, and introduced my son.
As we walked to our table, I thought, “Great. A teaching moment.”
When we sat, I said, “Honey, that was Dick Fuld and he…”
My son cut me off…with energy. “You don’t have to tell me who Dick Fuld is. I know who Dick Fuld is! He shouldn’t be at dinner; he should be in jail!!” He went on and on and on…..about the financial crisis, about the collapse of Lehman Brothers, about his views on greed on Wall Street. I kid you not. These were not topics we were discussing at home, though we had certainly been living the financial crisis. I thought he was too young to “get it” or have any interest.
And, let’s just say, his views on Wall Street were not positive.
Uh-oh, I thought.
I said to him, “Honey, you know I work on Wall Street, don’t you?”
His reply: “I know. I Googled you. You’re one of the good guys.”
Whew!
Fast forward to this summer. My daughter is interning for me: she’s doing a bit of research, grabbing coffee for the team, watching us build product. We’re all in an office the size of a larger-than-average broom closet: one in which I can’t get out of my chair without ramming the back of our lead designer.
At one point, as we were heading home one day, I said to her, “Funny, isn’t it? I used to have an office many times the size of this for just me, I had a driver, I had a jet, I had fresh-baked cookies.”
Her response: “So what? Sure, the money’s not as good, but look at how much happier you are, Mom, than in your last job. You’re creating something and you’re trying to make a difference in the lives of women.”
I promise you, I’m not making this up. Not a word of it. I was floored.
I’ve written about the handful of smart things I did as working mom. One thought to add: Why should we work as though our children are watching?
Because they are.
Even if we don’t think they are, they are.
Sallie Krawcheck is the Chair of Ellevate Network and Ellevate Asset Management. Ellevate Network is a professional woman’s network, operating across industries and around the world. Both businesses are committed to the full economic and financial engagement of women.
Originally published at www.linkedin.com on August 3, 2015.
Ellevate Network, Ellevate Asset Management...past head of Merrill Lynch & Smith Barney ....past research analyst.....mom....crazed UNC basketball fan
Sharing our ideas and experiences
According to the Harvard Business Review, 41% of women working in tech eventually end up leaving the field (compared to just 17% of men), and I can understand why…
I first learned to code at age 16, and am now in my 30s. I have a math PhD from Duke. I still remember my pride in a “knight’s tour” algorithm that I wrote in C++ in high school; the awesome mind warp of an interpreter that can interpret itself (a Scheme course my first semester of college); my fascination with numerous types of matrix factorizations in C in grad school; and my excitement about relational databases and web scrapers in my first real job.
Over a decade after I first learned to program, I still loved algorithms, but felt alienated and depressed by tech culture. While at a company that was a particularly poor culture fit, I was so unhappy that I hired a career counselor to discuss alternative career paths. Leaving tech would have been devastating, but staying was tough.
I’m not the stereotypical male programmer in his early 20s looking to “work hard, play hard”. I do work hard, but I’d rather wake up early than stay up late, and I was already thinking ahead to when my husband and I would need to coordinate our schedules with daycare drop-offs and pick-ups. Kegerators and ping pong tables don’t appeal to me. I’m not aggressive enough to thrive in a combative work environment. Talking to other female friends working in tech, I know that I’m not alone in my frustrations.
When researcher Kieran Snyder interviewed 716 women who left tech after an average tenure of 7 years, almost all of them said they liked the work itself, but cited discriminatory environments as their main reason for leaving. In NSF-funded research, Nadya Fouad surveyed 5,300 women who had earned engineering degrees (of all types) over the last 50 years, and only 38% of them are still working as engineers. Fouad summarized her findings on why they leave with “It’s the climate, stupid!”
This is a huge, unnecessary, and expensive loss of talent in a field facing a supposed talent shortage. Given that tech is currently one of the major drivers of the US economy, this impacts everyone. Any tech company struggling to hire and retain as many employees as they need should particularly care about addressing this problem.

Nobody wants to think of themselves as being sexist. However, a number of studies have shown that identical job applications or resumes are evaluated differently based on whether they are labeled with a male or female name. When men and women read identical scripts containing entrepreneurial pitches or salary negotiations, they are evaluated differently. Both men and women have been shown to have these biases. These biases occur unconsciously and without intention or malice.
Here is a sampling of just a few of the studies on unconscious gender bias:
Most concerningly, a study from Yale researchers shows that perceiving yourself as objective is actually correlated with showing even more bias. The mere desire to not be biased is not enough to overcome decades of cultural conditioning and can even lend more credence to post-hoc justifications. Acknowledging that you have biases that conflict with your values does not make you a bad person. It’s a natural result of our culture. The important thing is to find ways to eliminate them. Blindly believing your company is a meritocracy not only does not make it so, but will actually make it even harder to address implicit bias.
Bias is typically justified post-hoc. Our initial subconscious impression of the female applicant is negative, and then we find logical reasons to justify it. For instance, in the above study by Yale researchers if the male applicant for police chief had more street smarts and the female applicant had more formal education, evaluators decided that street smarts were the most important trait, and if the names were reversed, evaluators decided that formal education was the most important trait.

Because of the high attrition rate for women working in tech, teaching more girls and women to code is not enough to solve this problem. Because of the above well-documented differences in how men and women are perceived, training women to negotiate better and be more assertive is also not enough to solve this problem. Female voices are perceived as less logical and less persuasive than male voices. Women are perceived negatively for being too assertive. If tech culture is going to change, everyone needs to change, especially men and most especially leaders.
The professional and emotional costs to women for speaking out about discrimination can be large (in terms of retaliation, being perceived as less employable or difficult to work with, or companies then seeking to portray them as poor performers). I know a number of female software engineers who will privately share stories of sexism with trusted friends that we are not willing to share publicly because of the risk. This is why it is important to proactively address this issue. There is more than enough published research and personal stories from those who have chosen to publicly share to confirm that this is a widespread issue in the tech industry.
Change is possible. Although these are schools and not tech companies, Harvey Mudd and Harvard Business School provide inspiring case studies. Strong leaders at both schools enacted sweeping changes to address previously male-centric cultures. Harvey Mudd has raised the percentage of computer science majors that are women to 40% (the national average is 18%). The top 5% of Harvard Business School graduates rose from being approximately 20% women to closer to 40% and the GPA gap between men and women closed, all within one year of making a number of comprehensive, structural changes.

These recommendations on what companies could do to improve their cultures are based on a mix of research and personal experience. My goal is to have a positive focus, and I would love it if you walked away with at least one concrete goal for making constructive change at your company.
It is very common at tech start-ups to promote talented engineers to management without providing them with any management training or oversight, particularly at rapidly growing companies where existing leadership is stretched thin. These new managers are often not aware of any of the research on motivation, human psychology, or bias. Untrained, unsupervised managers cause more harm to women than men, although regardless, all employees would benefit from new managers receiving training, mentorship, and supervision.
In the Yale study mentioned above regarding applicants for police chief, getting participants to formalize their hiring criteria before they looked at applications (i.e. deciding if formal education or street smarts was more important) reduced bias. I was once on a team where the hiring criteria were amorphous and where the manager frequently overrode majority votes by the team because of “gut feeling”. It seemed like unconscious bias played a large role in decisions, but because of our haphazard approach to hiring, there was no way of truly knowing.
Leadership sets the values and culture for a company, so the onus is on them to make it clear that they value diversity. Younger engineers and managers will follow their perceptions of what executives value. In the cases of positive change at Harvey Mudd and Harvard Business School, leadership at the top was spearheading these initiatives. Intel is going to begin tying executives’ compensation to whether they achieve diversity goals on their teams. As Kelly Shuster, director for the Denver chapter of Women Who Code has pointed out, leaders have to get rid of employees who engage in sexist or racist behavior. Otherwise, the company is at risk of losing talented employees, and is sending a message to all employees that discrimination is okay.
There is a well-documented confidence gap between men and women. Don’t rely on people nominating themselves for promotions or to get the most interesting projects, since women are less likely to put themselves forward. Google relies on employees nominating themselves for promotions and data revealed that women were much less likely to do so (and thus much less likely to receive promotions). When senior women began hosting workshops encouraging women to nominate themselves, the number of women at Google receiving promotions increased. Groups are more likely to pick male leaders because of their over-confidence, compared to more qualified women who are less confident. Don’t rely heavily on self-evaluations in performance scoring. Women perceive their abilities as being worse than they are, whereas men have an inflated sense of their abilities.
Confirm that men and women with the same qualifications are earning the same amount and that they are receiving promotions and raises at similar rates (and if not, explore why). Make sure that gendered criticism (such as calling a woman strident or abrasive) is not used in performance reviews. The trend of tech companies releasing their diversity statistics is a good one, but given the high industry attrition rate for women, they should also start releasing their retention rates broken down by gender. I would like to see companies release statistics on the rates at which women are given promotions or raises compared to men, and how performance evaluation scores compare between men and women. By publicly sharing data, companies can hold themselves accountable and can track changes over time.
A culture that rewards facetime and encourages people to regularly stay late or eat dinner at the office puts employees with families at a disadvantage (particularly mothers), and research shows that working excess hours does not actually improve productivity in the long-term since workers begin to experience burn out after just a few weeks. Furthermore, when employees burn out and quit, the cost of recruiting and hiring a new employee is typically 20% of the annual salary for that position.
Stanford research studies document that women are more likely to dislike competitive environments compared to men and are more likely to select out of them, regardless of their ability. Given that women are perceived negatively for being too assertive, it is tougher for women to succeed in a highly aggressive environment as well. Men who speak up more than their peers are rewarded with 10% higher ratings, whereas women who speak up more are punished with 14% lower ratings. Creating a competitive culture where people must fight for their ideas makes it much tougher for women to succeed.
Over 10% of the 716 women who left tech in Kieran Snyder’s research left because of inadequate maternity leave. Several were pressured to return from leave early or to be on call while on leave. These women did not want to be stay-at-home-parents, they just wanted to recover after giving birth. Just as you would not pressure someone to return to work without recovery time after a major surgery, women need time to physically heal after delivering a baby. When Google increased paid maternity leave from 12 weeks to 18 weeks, the number of new moms who quit Google dropped by 50%.

There is a huge amount of research on unconscious racial bias, and tech companies need to address this issue. As Nichole Sanchez, VP of Social Impact at GitHub, describes, calls for diversity are often solely about adding more white women, which is deeply problematic. Racial bias adds another intersectional dimension to the discrimination that women of color experience. In interviews with 60 women of color who work in STEM research, 100% of them had experienced discrimination, and the particular negative stereotypes they faced differed depending on their race. A resume with a traditionally African-American sounding name is less likely to be called for an interview than the same resume with a traditionally white sounding name. I do not have the personal experience to speak about this topic and instead encourage you to read these blog posts and articles by and about tech workers of color on the challenges they’ve faced: Erica Baker (Slack engineer, former Google engineer), Justin Edmund (designer, Pinterest’s 7th employee), Aston Motes (Engineer, Dropbox’s 1st employee), and Angelica Coleman (developer advocate at Zendesk, formerly at Dropbox).

I’m currently teaching software development at all-women Hackbright Academy, a job that I love and that suits me perfectly. I want all women to have the opportunity (and I mean truly have the opportunity, without implicit or explicit discrimination) to learn how to program — knowing software development provides so many career and financial possibilities; it’s intellectually rewarding and fun; and being a creator is deeply satisfying. Although I know many women with frustrating experiences of sexism, I also know women who have found companies where they’re happily thriving. I’m glad for the attention tech’s diversity problem has been receiving and I am hopeful about continued change.
Thanks for review, edits, and discussion to: Jeremy Howard and Angie Chang.
hackbright instructor, math phd, software developer, @math_rachel
BY JON WESTENBERG
When you admire someone’s success, and tell them that their work has great meaning for you, the reaction of most people is to downplay your compliment.
There’s the standard response:
There’s the awkward line:
And then, there’s the insincerity of:
The same thing happens when people show their work. It’s always with caveats, with disclaimers and with phrases meant to distract you from the simple fact that they’re proud of themselves.
But we don’t need to play that game. When something we have worked on is good, and we know it’s good, and others say it’s good, there’s no reason to try and look humble, or to attempt to sidestep the praise. Because at the end of the day…
I think there’s two reasons that creatives and entrepreneurs dance the humble shuffle and hide their pride:

The first reason is that we’re conditioned to avoid and reject praise. This happens from a young age. Everyone is told that they shouldn’t seem arrogant or full of themselves. Bringing others down a peg or two is considered to be a good thing. How shitty is that?
We are all like that. Me, you, everybody. If you think you’re not, you need to work on being honest with yourself.
The effect of it is that when we finish work, no matter how good it is, even if it’s the single greatest accomplishment of our lives, we’re scared that others will want to cut us down or criticise us if we seem to happy with ourselves. We want to protect our egos by pre-empting negative reactions and distancing ourselves from what we’ve finished even as we try to entice others to experience what we’ve made.
So we send out our work and we say:
You know what we should be saying?

Here’s the second reason. We just don’t think that we should be the ones talking about what we’ve done. That’s for others to do.
We feel too awkward to talk about how well we think we did.
That’s why we pretend to be no big deal, and when we stand up to accept our Oscar-MTV-Startup awards we claim that we are humbled to be there, and all the credit really goes to our managers or boyfriends or that guy who makes our bagels in the morning.
But do you know what the problem is? In the end, there’s only one person who can really communicate about you and your accomplishments. And that’s you.
If you want to wait for others to talk about your work and sing the praises of what you’ve put out there into the black hole of the internet, you can go right ahead. But you’re missing out on your chance to share your journey.
Oh, and you’ll be waiting a long time.

It really is time we let go of both sincere and insincere modesty. I know that over the last few months I have worked harder than ever before to become a writer and to hone my craft. That hard work hasn’t happened at a desk, 9–5. It’s happened on the train home at the end of the day. I write half of my posts on my phone when I’m heading to the gym at 6 in the morning.
So when I finish a piece, when I finally drag it kicking and screaming over the word count, I don’t distance myself from it. I tell my closest friends, look at this thing that I managed to pull out of myself when it was late at night and I could have been doing a dozen other things.
I’m proud of my writing. I really am. And you should be proud too. Proud of your work, your company, your app, your brand new song, that 5 page film script with the three flashbacks and the dream sequences. You should be proud of the lines of code you slaved over and the UI that nobody is going to notice because it’s so bloody perfect.


Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

“Jack of all trades. Master of none.”
The warning against being a generalist has persisted for hundreds of years in dozens of languages.
“Equipped with knives all over, yet none is sharp,” warned people in China. In Estonia, it went, “Nine trades, the tenth one — hunger.”
Yet, many of the most impactful individuals — both contemporary and historical — have been generalists: Elon Musk, Steve Jobs, Arianna Huffington, Ben Franklin, Leonardo Da Vinci,and Marie Curie.
Are these legends just genius anomalies? Or are they models that we can all learn from?
My research over the past year shows that the latter is true. There is a surprisingly strong link between diversity of relationships / knowledge(being a generalist) and career success.
Many people fail to become successful generalists because schools and society tend to encourage focus on a single expertise. As a result, few ever develop the necessary skillset.
The good news is that with practice and some of the tools in this article, anyone can become a successful generalist.

Meeting new people outside of our current circles and learning outside of our expertise is hard and hard to justify.
For example, if you’re a marketing executive, it’s much easier to justify reading the latest marketing book than it is to read a classic book on evolutionary biology. Yet, reading that biology book might give you a completely novel idea that no one else in your field has.
In confronting this challenge, we must embrace the paradox of the usefulness of useless knowledge as poignantly shared by Nobel Laureate, Richard Feynman:
Here are six concrete strategies from some of the world’s top generalists (who also happen to be millionaire and billionaire entrepreneurs) to help you efficiently and systematically explore new areas…

Ray Dalio is the founder of the largest hedge fund in the world, Bridgewater Associates, which has $169+ billion under management. His approach is based on a set of fundamental principles, which he explains in a 117-page treatise, which I summarized.
Core to Dalio’s philosophy is becoming an independent thinker rather than focusing on what you are taught by others:
In other words, according to Dalio, the key to being a successful investor is finding when the consensus is wrong and having an independent opinion that is right.
The same principle holds true in other fields such as venture capital. Famous technology investor, Peter Thiel, selects the founders he backs in part by asking them what they strongly believe that no one else does.
According to Dalio, the first step to becoming an independent thinker is to understand reality deeply. In order to do this early in his career, he ordered all the annual reports of Fortune 500 companies and worked his way through the most interesting ones and formed opinions.
Warren Buffett took a similar approach. According to the book, Outsiders, he has kept up a habit of reading 3 annual reports a day for his entire career. When asked how to get smarter, Buffett once held up stacks of paper and said, “Read 500 pages like this every day. That’s how knowledge builds up, like compound interest.”
Charlie Munger’s success as one of the world’s top investors and Warren Buffett’s longtime business partner did not come from having a laser-like focus on investment theory. Rather, he studied widely and deeply in many fields, including microeconomics, psychology, law, mathematics, biology, and engineering, and applied insights from these fields to investing.
Munger’s rules and quotes are excerpted from various talks that he’s given, which are featured in his book, Poor Charlie’s Almanack.



Charlie Munger famously stated, “In my whole life, I have known no wise people (over a broad subject matter area) who didn’t read all the time — none.” Emerson Spartz, 28, embodies this ideal.
He dropped out of school at 12, taught himself to speed read, and created his own wide-ranging curriculum. Spartz has now read thousands of books, for awhile even averaging a book per day.
Spartz’s broad reading brought him to the conclusion that, “There are no original ideas. There are just people who aren’t widely read enough to realize their ideas aren’t original.”
Over time, Spartz developed theories on how to make sites go viral. He successfully tested those theories on Facebook Pages; many of which acquired millions of fans. He then progressed to testing his theories with media properties. Today, his company, Spartz Media, is a network of sites (like Dose.com and OMG Facts) with 45+ million visitors per month.
Spartz’s company uses a research and repurpose strategy. A proprietary algorithm finds trending articles with certain qualities and repurposes them for the site’s unique audience.
“In my experience,” Spartz says, “it is much faster and less risky to read more widely and repurpose what is already working, or has worked somewhere else, than to attempt to come up with an idea that you think is original but actually isn’t.”
While most people in our society put their attention into what’s new andpopular, Jason Duff, an Ohio entrepreneur, does the exact opposite. In his real estate endeavors, this means finding historic real estate properties that are undervalued and restoring them, rather than building new properties.
This approach has helped him create hundreds of jobs in his community and build several multimillion dollar businesses.
Duff’s key insight is that wisdom — and value — can be found in the old. The Lindy Effect demonstrates this idea; for every additional day an idea or technology survives, it becomes more likely it will survive longer into the future.
While we tend to assume the newest releases and latest editions will be the most relevant, seeking out classic ideas that have stood the test of time often hold the most unique insights.
Famous science fiction author, William Gibson, once said, “The future is already here — it’s just not very evenly distributed.”
Ryan Simonetti, co-founder of Convene, has built a team of 150+ employees through a unique approach of finding clues of the future in today’s world:
“As an entrepreneur, I’ve found a powerful approach to finding clues is looking for ‘edge cases’ (i.e., extreme users and early adopters of new technology) and then deeply listening to those users in order to understand their unmet needs,” Simonetti says.
“The toughest thing for anybody is to understand what it means to be truly objective and look at the world from someone else’s perspective. In my experience, the best way to do this is the ‘Ask, Observe, Engage’ approach, which is an integral part of design thinking:
Bottom line: look for those edge case users that will define your business and learn deeply from them by asking questions of, observing, and engaging them.
Arianna Huffington started her career as an author, became a journalist, ran for governor, and ultimately founded one of the fastest growing media companies in history, The Huffington Post.
Changing careers and exploring new ideas means letting go of all the time you invested going down one path. It means reinventing your identity, building new relationships, and letting go of limiting beliefs.
When I asked what allowed her to be be so radically open, she related it back to one concept — a “life audit” she did at age 40.
The exercise revealed to Huffington that many of the goals she had committed to in her head (learning German, becoming a good skier, etc.) simply weren’t getting done. Rather than continuing to stress over the goals she wasn’t achieving, she instead chose to consciously remove them from her list and focus on the goals that mattered most to her. This gave her more energy to pursue life-changing business opportunities on the horizon.
Research backs this up. Every day, each of us wastes valuable brainpower holding on to commitments we’ve made that are no longer realistic or important.
If you’ve ever killed yourself trying to meet an unreasonable deadline or shown up ridiculously late to a meeting instead of just rescheduling, you know exactly how much of an energy suck these inessential commitments can be.
“One of the best ways to open up your life to new possibilities is… not by adding new things, but by dropping things that no longer serve you,” Huffington said. “This not only means removing things you’re doing now, but shouldn’t be. It also means removing things from your mind that you think you should be doing, but realistically never will.”

So, expert or generalist?
Perhaps it’s not one or the other.
It’s time for a new model; one that considers the benefits of being a specialist and a generalist.
Perhaps, the winning formula is being what Orit Gadiesh, chairman of Bain (a multi-billion dollar consulting company) calls an ‘expert-generalist’. Gadiesh explains it like this:
“An expert-generalist is someone who has the ability and curiosity to master and collect expertise in many different disciplines, industries, skills, capabilities, countries, and topics and then:
The approach has differentiated Bain from its competitors and has propelled Gadiesh’s career.
Gadiesh goes wide by reading 100+ books a year including novels [in the language of the country she’s visiting] and books on physics, mathematics, history, biographies, and art.
Then, she goes deep by applying “cold, hard intellectual discipline”, and ruthlessly letting go of theories that she has fallen in love with, but that don’t hold up when examined with data.

The traditional narrative is that being a generalist is something you could only do decades or hundreds of years ago when business and science were less developed; when a single scientist could serendipitously discover an amazing medicine like penicillin growing around mold and usher in an era of life-saving antibiotics.
This narrative is misleading to the point of being wrong.
Yes, scientific discoveries require larger teams on average, according to research by Brian Uzzi, a professor at the Northwestern University Kellogg School of Management, who analyzed 26+ million scientific papers going back hundreds of years.
But the reason that teams are successful is not just because of more resources and deeper expertise; it’s also because those team members come from different disciplines and are able to cross-fertilize their insights into atypical, breakthrough combinations.
According to the discipline of scientometrics, the amount of academic research is doubling every 9 years and the number disciplines is growing exponentially. The same is true for the number of business industries.
What does this all mean?
As more business industries and scientific disciplines emerge, there are more opportunities to create breakthrough ideas by combining fields in atypical ways. We literally have the world’s knowledge at our finger tips.
It’s a good time to be an expert-generalist.
* * * * *
As a resource for this article, I put together a 13-page report you can download at no cost. It summarizes Ray Dalio’s very unique approaching to coming up with independent opinions that are true. I put it together because I didn’t see another summary anywhere else that was easy to comprehend or apply.
* * * * *
Other Articles In My Generalist Series
* * * *
Special thanks to Ian Chew and Sheena Lindahl who volunteered their time to edit this article and do research.
* * * *
Disclosure: Some of the contributors featured in this article are members ofSeminal, a selective council that distills research-backed, actionable insights from world-class entrepreneurs and leaders.
* * * * *
Michael Simmons writes at MichaelDSimmons.com and is co-founder of Empact. To receive more articles like this one, visit his blog.
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
O caso é verídico, eu estava presente e posso confirmar. Em uma reunião entre os gestores de uma determinada empresa um dos sócios colocou na mesa uma sugestão:
- Vamos comprar uma enorme piroca de pelúcia.
Os demais não levaram muito a sério, afinal aquele que apresentou a ideia tinha o hábito de fazer sugestões divertidas, geralmente como uma forma bem humorada de crítica.
- Sério, vamos comprar uma pica de pelúcia. Uma enorme, assim, quase do tamanho de uma pessoa.- Sério mesmo?- Sim, e todo funcionário ao chegar vai bater uma foto abraçada com ela.- E pra quê?- Porque essa será nossa política: essa pica também é minha.
E faz sentido.
Um dos grandes problemas de se gerir uma operação é justamente a cultura do "a minha parte eu fiz" ou do "ah, mas isso aí não é comigo". Nada explica melhor essa cultura do que uma historinha que costumam contar no meio empresarial de São Paulo para "ajustar" os mais idealistas.
Tem um quê de sabedoria corporativa, não nego. Eu mesmo lidei com situações assim em São Paulo. Chegando em um novo emprego tive o desprazer de participar de uma reunião com umas 12 pessoas que passaram cerca de 2h discutindo de quem era a culpa por uma falha em uma campanha. Cansado levantei a mão e larguei "opa, a culpa é minha, podemos voltar a trabalhar?". Levei um belo esporro por ter "assumido" uma culpa que não podia ser minha afinal eu havia acabado de chegar. Oras, isso me parecia óbvio, claro que a culpa não era minha, eu queria mesmo era acabar com a discussão e mostrar o quanto aquele bate boca estava sendo improdutivo. E caro. Queria provar um ponto apenas. O interessante é que a maior parte das pessoas na reunião achou minha ação satisfatória, fingindo não ter percebido a alfinetada, ficando feliz por ter se livrado daquela "pica" mesmo.
Essa política precisa mudar. Todos precisam ser responsáveis pelo resultado final, todos precisam se preocupar em resolver, em entregar. Recentemente li Criatividade S/A, livro escrito por Edwin Catmull, um dos fundadores da Pixar. No livro ele fala de como as coisas melhoraram na empresa quando ele conseguiu implantar uma cultura onde todos eram responsáveis pelo controle de qualidade, onde qualquer um, independente da posição hierárquica, poderia apontar falhas ou fazer sugestões. Uma cultura pela qualidade, pela solução, pela responsabilidade com o todo. Detalhe, isso antes da Disney. E, falando em Disney, essa é uma cultura que eles prezam muito lá, vejam esse caso que tive conhecimento nessa semana, narrado por Claudio Nasajon.
E você, "escolhe a menor e senta em cima" ou acredita que "essa pica também é sua"?
Gostou do texto? Se gostou clica aí no "recommend", logo abaixo, e ajude mais pessoas a conhecê-lo.
A primeira publicação brasileira no Medium. Uma produção colaborativa de histórias e tendências para instigar você!


Yes, we get it. Google is not a conventional company. Larry Page said so in the first letter to shareholders when the company went public in 2004. And in case we missed this, Page repeated the quote today when announcing that Google, as it existed before August 10, 2015, would thereafter be known as Alphabet. Most of the stuff we interact with from Google — search, ads, YouTube, Gmail, and Android — will be part of just one of several companies under the Alphabet umbrella. At least that company will retain the familiar name.
The other companies — including Google X, Fiber, Calico, Nest, Sidewalk, and Google Ventures — will be fully owned, but separate, each with its own CEO and finances. In that sense, Google will be like Warren Buffett’s universally admired Berkshire Hathaway, a conglomeration of firms bound only by its ownership.
No one expects Alphabet to operate in the hands-off manner with which Buffett oversees his empire. Page, as CEO of the whole enchilada, will make sure that no executive in his domain will be chief enough to buck his philosophy of thinking big, exploiting technology at scale, and snubbing convention.
The question is, how separate will those companies be? The sense I get at Google is that this new structure is but an evolution of a process begun when Page stepped back from everyday operations last October and turned over much of Google’s product functions to his key lieutenant Sundar Pichai (who now becomes the CEO of Google lite). But Google…er, Alphabet, has seemingly crossed a line by structuring its divisions as separate companies in the Berkshire Hathaway model. At this point, neither Page or anyone else has indicated how thick that line is.
And that’s important. For many years, observers have expressed puzzlement at Google’s adventuresome propensity to generate divisions seemingly built on non sequiturs. What did self-driving cars have to do with search? Can you sell ads with smart thermostats? But when you scratched the surface, you could always figure how such ventures actually did promote Google’s core business. For instance, self-driving cars are huge consumers of Google Maps, and if people are liberated from driving they can do more web searching.
You could regard those crazy moonshots as wild blood injected into the core business, a perpetual antidote to corporate anemia. Because these divisions were part of Google itself, they could easily share their innovations with the part of the company that consumers used daily. When a team inside Google X invented a learning system informally called the Google Brain, it was soon moved to Google’s Knowledge division to enhance the search engine. Will that process be so easily repeated when Google X is run as a separate company? Or will the research division’s CEO be able to decide that his own firm would be better off selling the team to Microsoft or Yahoo? (I put the question to the company formerly known as Google, and didn’t get an answer. I’m not even sure that the answer to that has been determined.)
Or consider the role of Tony Fadell, the once and future CEO of Nest, the company Google bought for $3.2 billion in January 2014. Nest now becomes one of the separate Google companies, which may not make much difference because Google was letting Fadell run it as a quasi-independent duchy. But because Nest was part of the larger enterprise, Fadell had been tapped for broader responsibilities at Google, including the reinvention of Google Glass. Will he now relinquish that role to once again run Nest as a single entity? (Nest told me it wasn’t revealing any details in addition to Page’s statement.)
And what about Fiber, the division of Google devoted to installing and operating high-speed Internet? As I understand it, the mission of Fiber was not necessarily to make money from subscribers but to hasten a higher-speed infrastructure that would make Google’s core products more attractive and profitable. Will its new CEO now have to change direction in order to burnish his own bottom line? (Actually, that could be really interesting — if Fiber bulked up to be a major Internet provider rather than a burgeoning experiment, it might really jolt the incumbents.)
Obviously, Alphabet is not going full Berkshire Hathaway here. In Buffett’s world, an innovation made at Fruit of the Loom does not quickly get shared at Dairy Queen or Geico. But with Alphabet, Page is granting his divisions at least a measure of more autonomy — and an incentive to optimize for the one and not for the all. As Page writes, “Alphabet is about businesses prospering through strong leaders and independence.” It will be fascinating to see how this plays out.
Scrabble, anyone?
Follow Backchannel: Twitter | Facebook
I’m starting a tech hub at Medium.
Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

by Jeremy StewartIllustrations by Rob Hudak
If you’re like me at all, you love a good joke that’s related to web development. Here are a few I‘ve thought up over the years. Some are good, some are cheesy, but all are guaranteed to have you laughing at your computer terminal for hours.
Q: Why did the web designer drown?A: She didn’t know if she should float:left or float:right.
Q: Why was the web developer fired from his job?A: He was getting too Sassy.
Alternate version:
Q: Why was the web developer fired from her job?A: She did Less every day.
Q: What did the Southern web developer say when he found out his team stopped using version control?A: Y’all better Git!
Q: Why did the developer stay home from work?A: She had a code!
Q: How did the scrawny web developer put on some muscle?A: He started using flexbox (with float fallbacks for older versions of IE).
Q: Why was the JavaScript reality show cancelled after only one episode?A: People thought it seemed scripted.
Q: How can you tell that a web developer is working?A: You can hear him Grunting!
A junior developer panicked when he realized he didn’t know how to initiate a secure shell session to a remote machine. As he became more upset and his voice grew louder, his boss — the senior developer — took notice and tried to quiet him down. With his finger pressed to the young developers lips, the senior developer calmly whispered, “SSH.”
Q: Why does no one like jokes about descriptions, keywords, or character encodings?A: They’re too ‘meta’.
Q: Why was the iOS developer always so sleepy?A: She wasn’t given any Java.
Update: Four great jokes submitted by Shawn Bailly:
Q: Why did the IP cross the subnet?A: Because the NAT said to!
Q: Why couldn’t the variable enter the JavaScript store?A: It was (Closured())!
Q: Why was the class upset that its parent died?A: Because it wouldn’t be getting the inheritance!
Q: Why did the class attend the gay pride parade?A: It supported polymorphism.
Wonderful joke by @sharonlin:
Q: Why don’t web developers get along with others?A: They’re too MEAN.

Do you have a funny web development joke of your own? Comment it on this article or submit a pull request here!
Developer, dog owner, design lover. Full stack developer, haiku writer. I build responsive, accessible websites.

Few things in life are constant: death, taxes, and strangers asking “So what do you do?” within a minute of a handshake.
As a UX designer, I’ve had a lot of practice over the years trying to nail down my answer.
Here’s what I’ve come up with:
It’s my job to be inside a user’s brain. I need to look at design from the mindspace of a user (actually, lots of users) and squash potential problems or confusion.
This never-ending process requires keeping UX present before, during, and after the build is complete. It’s always a challenge to act with the user in mind — influences like due dates and bottom lines sometimes cloud the way.
To help keep your product on the right path, I’ve assembled a list of 5 UX principles I use to guide my design process. Understanding how and why to make UX decisions goes a long way in explaining things to others on the team, which goes an even longer way in getting said UX decisions into the final product.
Good design is easy to digest — the brain shouldn’t have to expend a ton of energy to figure out what the heck it’s looking at. With any luck, people will just “get it” without needing a 6-section explanation.
This goes beyond clear, easy-to-read copy. People sometimes need guidance to make decisions, so a menu with a list of 12 inline items may seem daunting. Organizing with some hierarchy (size, color, icons) can help highlight the more common choices, which allows someone to find what they’re looking for faster.
Another good example of digestible design is the new user guide, often presented as staggered tips that a person can process one at a time. But imagine the opposite, hitting a brand-new user with a whole stack of instructions, removed from the context of the product. No one likes a confusing surprise.
Consider all the decisions you’re asking someone to make with your product to get to the bottom of the funnel. The brain has a limited amount of cognitive resources during the day — using them up needlessly is rude.
Good design is honest. Aside from understanding the words in your value prop, you need the user to understand the actual value. Being coy or unclear about your product isn’t going to win any fans.
Related to value, pricing is an area where clarity is everything. Users aren’t going to click “Buy now” if they can’t figure out what you’re asking them to pay. While shady “free trials” that switch to auto-billing might be the norm, I doubt they’re winning any popularity contests.
This may sound cheesy, but a good plan is to simply follow the Golden Rule. Explain things like you’d want them explained to you. Make things as clear as you can. You know what you’d expect out of the products you choose to use, so don’t you dare build something less.
Good design is easy to trust. Before asking someone to complete an action, make every effort to help them understand why the task is needed. Being honest and clear in explanations builds trust at each step, leading to increasingly easier conversions down the funnel.
Consider Uber (and Lyft, depending on which way you swing). They’ve made catching a ride so easy that a 100-year-old industry is now in chaos. The app saves your payment info, which you might not feel comfortable exchanging with a stranger, and facilitates a trustworthy, painless transaction.
Removing doubt will create a growingly invisible experience. As decisions require less and less resources, using the product becomes easier and more enjoyable.
Ground-breaking design is awesome, but design that converts is better. New frameworks and flashy plugins might look nice on Dribbble, but if no one is clicking the “buy” buttons, you’ve got a problem.
Platform guidelines exist for a reason. While it might seem that making your product look exactly the same from platform to platform is the main goal, be careful to pay respect to the sticky details of each OS. Using familiar patterns, icons, and presentational styles is a great way to look native, even if you’re not.
Testing your solutions on actual devices goes a long way to ensuring things feel at home in each environment, which is where a tool like InVision shines. Pretending to be a user is easier when you’re not also having to pretend to use a device.
It’s been said that an idea isn’t enough anymore, that execution is what wins the war. Ironically, the more the team executes, the less the user has to. The more simplicity you can bring to a complex problem, the more delighted the user will be with your solution.
The ultimate delight is when someone forgets your product is a “product” — where it’s so useful that it doesn’t even read as a product anymore, just simply as some useful thing in a person’s life.
Building thoughtful products with clear intentions shows that you care, makes choices more comfortable, and leads to a better overall experience. And that’s important, because it’s been found that 68% of users giving up did so because they think you don’t care about them (which we know isn’t true!).
It’s easy to judge the user experience of your own product as long as you’re honest with yourself. Walk a mile in someone’s shoes, considering each action in your product from the brainspace of a tired, weary person. Would you click next?
Originally published at blog.invisionapp.com on July 8, 2015.
Prototyping, Collaboration & Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at http://www.InVisionApp.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

In this day and age, it can be hard to keep your child from being exposed to Elon Musk. Although you may do your best on the home front, they may inevitably stumble across a profile piece or news item on TV at a friend’s house or the computer at the school library. For that reason, it’s better to be prepared for your child’s eventual exposure to Elon Musk and to know how to respond to the questions you may be asked.
If your child asks why you’re not a billionaire like Elon Musk.
Tell your child that Elon Musk is highly unusual, as exemplified by his strange name. Tell your child that if your parents had named you Zambor Dweemoflux you might very well have become a billionaire too, but the fact of the matter is you’re stuck with Jim or Linda or Steve and a normal surname. This is a good opportunity to inform them that life isn’t always “fair” and not everyone gets a circus name like Elon Musk or Sepp Blatter that simply lends itself to being crazy wealthy.
If your child asks why Elon Musk seemingly generates amazing ideas on routine trips to the bathroom.
Tell your child that before he/she was born you too had a groundbreaking idea for a rainbow-powered washing machine. Let them know you were on the verge of getting a patent and becoming fabulously wealthy but then they happened. Tell them you selflessly let your dreams die so that you could focus on being a “hands on” parent because Harry Chapin’s Cat’s In The Cradle really freaked you out.
If your child asks why you’ve still failed to build a toolshed in the backyard while Elon Musk creates multiple corporations with the snap of his fingers.
Make sure your child understands that Elon Musk is an abomination created in human form — the love child of two ender-demons, Gorshak and Melkanor from the seventh circle of Hell. Tell him/her that he was born specifically to make everyone else in the world look like serial underachievers and feel bad about themselves. Tell your child that you are “The Chosen One” and that in order to prevent Elon Musk from his nefarious goal of spreading global unhappiness and dissatisfaction with everyone else’s relatively pathetic accomplishments they must never again acknowledge the demon-spawn’s profane victories.
If that doesn’t work, take away your child’s iPad until they stop bringing his name up.
This originally appeared on banterist.com
I self-identify as Brian Sack • www.briansack.com
I think when people are ultra-positive and have this incomparably sunny disposition toward the world, I get turned off. There’s a lot of stuff out there which attempts to make you feel inspired, but ends up leaving you feeling ashamed for being human. It would be easy for me to say:
“Everything happens for a reason!”
“Life is an adventure!”
“Love solves everything!”
“Happiness is a choice!”
These are easy words to say. Easy things to think. Easy, easy, easy. But, their meanings dry up the moment life happens.
I have spent far too many nights feeling ashamed that I couldn’t be more positive, happier, better, stronger. I’d look at these shiny people plastered with positivity and I’d wonder where I went wrong. Why was I so affected by the world? Why didn’t every day feel like an adventure? Don’t these people have to pay bills and have uncomfortable conversations and wake up sometimes with a headache and an axe to grind? Why was I seemingly the only one so deeply affected by the human experience?
I don’t want to be inspired anymore. Inspiration is cheap. It’s easy. It’s flowery. It’s drenched in promises no one can fulfill.
I want to feel understood. I want to feel heard. I want to feel like my weird and twisty and dark thoughts and fears and feelings are not unique to me. I don’t need someone negating my experience in order to provide me with sweet words fluffy as clouds — and just as transparent. I want gritty and real and raw and I’d rather see people fucking up than trying to act as if they never do.
I’m tired of people trying to inspire me to have a better, bigger, happier life. Let me exist. Let me fumble. Let me find the patch of light in the long tunnel of darkness. Let me figure out some shit on my own. I say we need less fake inspiration in this world and more realness. Less doomsday. Less fake happiness. More real shit. Less preaching. More storytelling. Less advice. More community.
I wish people would stop trying to perfect my life. Everybody is selling the magic pill to happiness. Why do I have to be so happy all the time? CAN I LIVE?
I want you to know that you don’t need to fix yourself if you’re not smiling every moment of the day. Sometimes you have very little to be grateful for and that’s okay. Sometimes it’s hard to muster up the energy to be happy with what you have when you want so much more from the world and yourself. That’s okay. It’s okay to be angry and to be kind of dark and weird and not a ball of positivity every moment. Sometimes it’s okay to be bored and to think that happiness is a bit boring because it kind of is. Sometimes it’s fine to be moody and sad and contemplative and to solve problems with a glass of wine or a pizza or some good sex I don’t even know but it’s okay to just not have it all figured out, to have no answers, to just be like, what is the point of anything.
It’s okay to feel like the ground is shaking beneath your feet. It’s okay because everything is temporary. You can lose your footing one day and be on top of the world the next. Things can change in a blink. Happiness is as fleeting as anything else. These fake salespeople who act like they have the cure to being human really grind me up. All they serve to do is make you feel ashamed for not having it all figured out. They sell your aspirational experience and bake shame into it.
Just promise me that the last thing you’ll do is be ashamed of where you’re at in your experience of being a human. Nothing good comes from shame. It’s about the lowest vibrational place you could be operating from. Avoid shame and anything or anyone that causes you shame. Get it all the hell out of your energy field. Shame is not going to motivate you. It’s going to drain you.
If there’s one promise you can make for yourself, let it be this: I will not let myself be ashamed of my unique experience of being human. Forget the positive bullshit: that promise, that mantra, that state of mind is what can really change lives. A person incapable of cowering to shame is a hero — considering all the many reasons our world gives us reasons to be ashamed. To forgo the feeling of shame is an act of radical resistance. Let yourself be. To truly be. What freedom.
If you enjoyed this post, feel free to Recommend it. You can also like my Facebook page or follow me on Twitter.
writer // jamievaron.com
This post was originally published on Rype.
“If only I could have learned Spanish a few years ago…”“If only I learned about investing when I was still in my early twenties…”
If only.
For many of us, there are more things we want to learn than we have time.
As information becomes more readily accesible online, the number of things we want to learn is only continuing to increase. And the only variable we can control is the amount of time we spend learning them.
Shortening the learning curve is a topic that’s been studied for many years, and this guide will cover the fundamental core principles of learning faster. You’d be able to leverage these principles to push yourself to learn faster in any topics including languages, business, musical instruments, and more.
Why reinvent a wheel that’s already been created?
The common tendency we all have when learning something new is trying to master it alone, underestimating the amount of time and effort that can be saved by getting help from someone who’s learnt it.
Think back to a time when you first learned how to speak a new language or a new skill.
You probably had a steep learning curve initially, but after a few years or even months of experimenting and making mistakes, you could design a shortcut to help a friend avoid those same mistakes you made early on.
In order to achieve mastery faster, our first step should be to consult the top players in the field, and model the path they have already carved out for us.
As Tony Robbins puts it:
In this day and age, it’s possible to retrieve almost any solution that’s out there in the form of books, blogs, training videos, consultants, someone in our network — the list goes on.
The next step to hacking the learning curve is to deconstruct the skill into its basic, fundamental components. Break down the parts and find the most important things to practice first.
This is in reference to the popularized Pareto’s Principle, where the goal is to generate 80% of results putting in 20% of the effort.

It turns out that this concept can apply to almost anything in life, including:
Here’s the Pareto graph in a different visual format.

Embracing this way of thinking only goes to show that very few things actually make a difference in any aspect of our lives, including learning.
Our goal then, should be to separate the 20% of our learning materials that will give us 80% of the result.
As it turns out, fast-learning experts have already embraced this ideology, and have provided some concrete examples on how to do this effectively.
In his Ted Talk, Josh Kaufman believes that you don’t need 10,000 hours in order to master a skill. As Kaufman elaborates, the key is to embrace the first 20 hours, and learn the most important subset skills within that time frame to get the maximum amount of impact.
Related topic to learn: Parkinson’s Law
For example:
Multi-tasking is a guilty pleasure we’ve all developed in the age of constant notifications and mobile applications. From checking our emails every ten minutes, to scrolling through our instagram feed, to co-workers coming by our desk for a “five-minute break.”
However, multi-tasking can be one of the biggest hurdles preventing us from learning faster.
Think about your own computer.
When you have 20+ different tabs open on your browser, your computer begins to slow down and it takes longer to process every action afterwards.
Studies have shown that when an individual gets distracted, it takes an average of 25 minutes to return to the task at hand.
What’s more important to note, is that a study done by the University of California, Irvine, found that a co-worker gets only 11 minutes before they’re distracted.
The same thing applies to our long-term focus. Many of us aren’t able to dedicate the 6–12+ months it takes to learn a skill because of the countless new projects, ideas, or hobbies that come our way.
And when we decide to shift our focus towards a new distraction, it’s much more difficult to find the same passion and drive to focus on the previous skill.
Once you have deconstructed the subset skills that will give you the maximum amount of results, focus solely on improving those skills and avoid learning anything else until you’ve mastered them.
This is the part where most of us struggle, and what many of us don’t want to hear.
YES! The key to mastering anything faster requires practice.
It requires frequency and persistence of performing the same skill over and over again, until you can do it subconsciously, without having to think about it.
The best performers in the world understand this “secret” to learn faster and become the best, yet rarely talk about its importance because of how unsexy it sounds.
Expert-level performance is primarily the result of expert-level practice, not due to innate talent.
As K. Anders. Ericsson, a scientific researcher from Florida State University, elaborates in his paper:
Recommended further reading:5 Research-Backed Methods to Master Any Skill Faster
In 1960, while they were still an unknown high school rock band, the Beatles went to Hamburg, Germany to play in the local clubs.
The group was underpaid. The acoustics were terrible. The audiences were unappreciative. So what did the Beatles get out of the Hamburg experience?
Non-stop hours of playing time, practice, and immediate feedback that forced them to get better.
That’s the key difference that rose The Beatles to the top, according to Macolm Gladwell in his book Outliers.
The band brothers didn’t just practice in their garage for the sake of practicing; they strived to get in front of a live audience that will provide them immediate criticism and constructive feedback.

As the Beatles grew in skill, audiences demanded more performances — more playing time. By 1962 they were playing eight hours per night, seven nights per week. By 1964, the year they burst on the international scene, the Beatles had played over 1,200 concerts together.
By way of comparison, most bands today don’t play 1,200 times in their entire career.
This is why at Rype, we’re solely focused on connecting you with native speaking tutors, who can give you immediate feedback during your lessons.
Unfortunately, many of us give up before or during what Seth Godin calls “The Dip.”

Godin describes that although it’s important to know when to quit, many potential winners don’t reach success because they quit before the dip.
According to Godin:
Psychologists have also studied what’s known as the transition cycle.
It’s the cycle of progress we go through whenever we’re experiencing change or a novel event, such as a tragic event or even learning something new.

As you can see, there’s a sense of euphoria we all experience when we begin something new. It’s why we’re so addicted to seeing notifications on social media, because dopamine gets released each time.
Once the Honeymoon phase fades away, we experience the “dip” and our progress begins to plateau or diminish. This is when most of us quit.
The reason why this is important to visualize is because if you can predict that a dip is coming whenever you’re learning anything new, it’s easier to fight through it.
More importantly, the dip is there because those persistent enough to stick it through can ride the upward wave that is at the end of the tunnel.
We made it! Here’s the summary of main points discussed in the ultimate guide to hacking the learning curve:
Thanks for reading until the end! I’d greatly appreciate it if you could share this with one person that will find this valuable, and feel free to hit the big fat recommend button in the bottom! ☺
If you enjoyed this article, you’ll also like reading:-5 Research-Backed Methods to Master Any Skill Faster-How to Double Your Reading Speed (Without Losing Comprehension)-How to Learn Any Language in Less Than 90 Days
Adventurer, Entrepreneur, Lifehacker. Follow me @heyseankim http://thegrowthlist.com
Thoughts on language hacking, learning faster, and traveling the globe. https://rypeapp.com

It’s a good time to be a software engineer. The industry is booming, demand for coders continues to grow, and salaries are at an all time high.
But how long will the party last?
Telegraph Operators of the 21st century
There are striking parallels between software engineers today and telegraph operators of the 19th century. By today’s standard, telegraph operators were technical lightweights: the bulk of the job consisted of receiving and transmitting messages sent over telegraph wires in Morse code, a monotonous albeit attention-heavy task. In contrast, contemporary software engineering generally involves a broad skill set that requires a deep understanding of complex systems and the ability to quickly master and re-master an accelerating parade of new software development frameworks.
However, during the mid 19th century, telegraph operators were well paid, well regarded, and considered quite technical relative to other mainstream professions. They had freedom to travel, and highly skilled operators flocked to large cities for the best jobs. As telegraphy took off and more and more cables were laid, the demand for telegraph operators skyrocketed. Standards for faster communication were developed, and operators had to keep up, memorizing increasingly efficient and complex systems of shorthand and communication protocols. Thomas Edison was a telegraph operator early in his career before settling into his true calling of stealing ideas from Nikola Tesla and empire-building. And unsurprisingly, as with contemporary software engineering, there were huge pay discrepancies between men and women.
Yet by the 20th century, the telephone had been invented, a technology that had the distinct advantage of not requiring an operator tasked with translation from code to natural language. By the 1920s, there were only a small fraction of the telegraph operators left compared to the 1890s.
The Downfall of Software Engineering
Fast forward a hundred years, and we seem to be in a similar situation with software engineers. While this profession is undeniably one of broader skill and intellectual ability than operating a telegraph, software engineers of today occupy a similar functional role to the telegraph operators of Edison’s era. The contemporary explosion of software parallels the 19th century rise of early networked communications. And just as the demand for telegraph operators scaled more or less linearly with the rise of the telegram, the demand for software engineers is currently scaling roughly linearly with the rise of software. Back then, every telegram had to be translated from Morse code to natural language by a human being. Today, every line of source code (sort of) has to be written by a human being.
To be sure, software is becoming more efficient, in that sophisticated frameworks have been developed so that fewer lines of source code have to be written, and advanced programming languages, compilers and interpreters have made the life of the programmer much easier than it had been in the 1980s or 1990s. But fundamentally, the process of writing software is still largely a human activity today.
That will change.
The current version of the profession is under pressure along two fronts. First, there are website-building tools like Weebly that allow anyone to build a website without writing software. Moreover, basic high level software engineering is getting more and more accessible, so that the delta between expressing clear ideas and being able to program is vanishing.
Second, on another front, software is getting better at facilitating the creation of software. While we are still a ways away from a fully automated piece of software that can write other pieces of software given some minimal, half-baked specification (i.e. do the job of a human software engineer), it is part way there. And more importantly, we do not need full artificial intelligence capabilities in order for role of the software engineer to shrink; instead, our software itself will just play a bigger and bigger role relative to humans in the creation of software. As an analogy, imagine semi-automated computer-assisted driving as a first step before fully self-driving cars.
While there will still be specialized software engineers and plenty of computer science-minded humans in the future, it seems inevitable given both of the above pressures that Software Engineering as a category will fade into historical obscurity as we approach the 22nd century.
But if you’re a software engineer (as I am), don’t despair — the critical thinking and technical skills will surely come in useful for future needs that arise. And if they don’t, well, keep some of that money saved up.
Interested in fairness, transparency, security, large data sets, social interactions.


*Note: this is my first piece of writing on Medium. I’m really happy to be here, I think this platform and community of writers/thinkers is fantastic. Hi everyone here.*
A few months ago I joined Patreon, a crowdfunding website sort of like a hardcore, ongoing-style Kickstarter that allows fans to support artists on a regular basis by pledging to pay a certain amount of money — a dollar, three dollars — every time content is put out: a piece of music, an article, a video, a page of comic book art. It’s basically a trusting subscription to my general art-channel, true new-school patronage.
Since March I’ve gathered about 5,500 patrons, and whenever I release something, the community pays me about $35,000, which I then use to pay for my office, my small staff, my rent, my life, and the technicians and collaborators who help me make the art. Earlier this summer I worked with a great artist, Avi Ofer, to create a short animation using a found iPhone voice memo recording of weird shit my writer husband says in his sleep. Three weeks ago I went into the recording studio to make a record of cover songs with my dad. The other day I did a piece of bizzaro living-statue performance art + book-drive at the New York Public Library, filmed it, and will put that film out as a piece of patreon content. Nobody’s complaining yet.
All this is honestly a huge relief after wondering if I was going to have to mount a kickstarter campaign every year to release music, cover the bills and support my generally spontaneous art-making addiction.
As many artists are finding out, Kickstarter campaigns are thrilling, but a lot of work. It’s a lot of concrete stuff to put in the mail; it’s a lot of admin energy spent NOT making art. With patreon, I think shit up, I do my work, I put the content/music/video up for free for everyone to enjoy, and I still get paid. It’s great. In a TED talk I gave called “The Art of Asking” a few years ago (and again in the book with the same title) I argued for a possible future where we don’t punish people for sharing content.
Taylor Swift may disagree, but I’m still committed to the fact that neither Spotify nor iTunes is going to be the salvation of the modern musician. There’s just no proof that those giants are committed to the survival of the smaller artists. The way I see it, we’re better off using the new tools of the internet to exchange with each other, rather than rely on a different set of middlemen who are possibly even less committed to the true sustainability of artists’ careers than the major labels were.
Anyway.

With my first child, at 39 years old.
Then I got this email through the “Ask Amanda” portal on my website.
Dearest Amanda,
I love you. I’ve been a faithful fan of yours for nearly a decade. We’ve met face to face a couple times. I gushed about how it was you who inspired me to take up song-writing and composing. I gave you a bracelet. It was all sincere and heartfelt.
Lately though, you’ve had me concerned.
The steady stream of new music we used to hear from you seems to be dwindling. And most of the new songs you’ve released lately are the simplistic, feel good, ukulele tunes. Which are fine. But I know that those songs take less time and effort to write, and they offer much less brain-heart stimulation than your older work. Frankly, they’re a little disappointing.
You have a reasonably sized, and growing fanbase. There will always be people to buy your merch, your albums, tickets to your shows. You didn’t NEED to join Patreon, but you did anyway. Then you announced your pregnancy, after years of saying you didn’t want to be a mom. It makes me worry about what’s going to happen next.
Child care is my day job. I babysit my two nephews. I know that young children need LOTS of attention. Especially if they are hyper-sensitive like you or me. Chances are you’ll pass that trait on to your kid. When you have this baby, either him/her/it will suffer, or your career will suffer. Your career will suffer a lot sooner if your pregnancy is as physically and emotionally draining as some of my friends’ pregnancies.
So, my question is, did you do this on purpose?
Are your patrons paying for new music, or are they paying for a new baby?
Is what you’re doing really fair to your fans? When will the music happen? The really gritty, complex, emotional good stuff? Am I missing something important? Some behind-the-scenes stuff? Is my perception of time skewed?
Bottom line is, I need answers before I can feel comfortable giving you more of the money that I earned with my own sweat and tears.
Love always,
Worried-but-Still-Devoted
(The subject of the email, btw, was: “Baby announcement right after joining Patreon?…Scam much?”)
Dear Worried,
First off, thank you for taking the time to even write this letter, and thank you for being a fan of my music all these years. I really do love and cherish every person who cares enough to communicate with me.
Secondly, thanks for confirming my deepest, most insecure, harrowing fears about motherhood and about how people will perceive me now that I have decided to breed!
Sarcasm aside, it really is a pregnant artist’s worst nightmare….well… at least it is THIS pregnant artist’s worst nightmare to get a letter like this.

I had my first abortion at 17, senior year of high school, and I’ve had two more in the 22 years since, for varying complicated reasons. Though I don’t regret them, those were some of the hardest, darkest decisions and days of my life.
I agree with you that, yes, some artists, male and female, do get kinda boring after they have babies. I won’t name names, but we’ve seen it happen, dude. A passionate, angst-filled songwriter who speaks to the very core of your black, black, suffering soul all of a sudden mellows into parenthood and domesticity and starts writing sappy songs about how everything is just about….y’know….acceptance, balance, meadows of wheat, and going with the flow man.
I would never begrudge these artists their magical balance. It’s hard enough, right?
Here’s the thing: I have come to believe we don’t have to suffer to make great art. But — still, to this day — I’ve had a hard time shaking the belief that suffering and isolation are critically important ingredients of art-making. And I’ve spent years weighing the pros and cons of having a child:
Backstory.
Where I grew up, there weren’t really any Mom Artists in my field of vision.There were nice housewives and welfare moms and bad-ass career women who worked in tall buildings in the city, but no artists in sight with babies. I simply did not equate “mother” with “artist”. Artists were another breed of being entirely, encountered almost exclusively through MTV and magazines. Usually wearing leather and tutus. Smoking.
Female musicians I encountered at an early age were never shown in videos or pictures with children in tow.

So no small wonder that as I approached my mid-thirties I entered a conflicted baby conundrum. If I had kids, would I turn into a boring, irrelevant, ignorable artist? Would I suddenly start writing songs about balance and shit? Would I have a sudden, terrifying, interest in the LUTE?
Would I become that annoying person who is so enthralled with their child that it’s impossible to have an intelligent conversation with them about art because they’d rather show you iPhone photos of their kid drooling out a spoonful of mashed carrots? This all made me really afraid.

It didn’t help matters that I’d built a traveling artist’s life that I loved, a well-oiled bohemian existence of couchsurfing and wonder and friends and improv in which I ran my own business and nobody could boss me around. Not to mention finding a supportive husband, Neil, who came equipped with three older children from another marriage, and who was just as happy to have more children as not.
It also didn’t help that some my own elders had begun saying irritating things like:

Which is, simply put, total bullshit. I’d learned, through my honest, intimate friendships with older people, that that simply was not true. Some of my mentors, artistic or not, were and are childless and the happiest, most fulfilled and enlightened people I know. I’ve learned from them that children do not innately make you happy and fulfilled: only you can do that, and to shuffle the responsibility onto a kid is actually a pretty cruel thing to do.
I watched my biological window start closing with a kind of paralytic dread, knowing that my womb and my soul were going to get crushed if I didn’t make a wholehearted decision one way or the other.
So, as you know, I went for it.
I wasn’t sure I was doing the right thing, or even that there was a right thing to do. I just did it, really hoping that the ol’ “jump and the net shall appear” cliché would manifest into a net and not a black hole.
And right now, at 36 weeks pregnant, all I can do is look at the female heroes who’ve preceded me and NOT descended into crappy boringness and pray to the holy trinity: Patti…Ani...Björki…hear my prayer. May I not get fucking boring.



So, dear Worried, you can see why your email stirred my darkest fears. I’m worried too. Probably more worried than you, because, I have to live with me all the time. And soon, I’ll have to live with this baby all the time. All while trying to not lose my art-self.
And, honestly, if this baby really winds up acting as a crippling, muse-killing, inspiration-sucker who saps the life out of my music rendering it totally bland…well…just tiptoe away, and leave me in my balanced, bland and happy misery.
As to your worry about whether or not this is a scam to crowdfund an infant: it can be confusing about where the lines of asking and taking should be drawn.
Let me tell you a story, one that I was going to include in “The Art of Asking” book (it wound up on the cutting room floor with 100,000 other words.)
Last year I stumbled across an open letter from Eisley, a female-fronted indie band from Texas, who’d tried to raise $100k on kickstarter so they could afford to accept a slot to support a far bigger band on tour.
Some people were confused, but I understood those logistics: when my band, The Dresden Dolls, were offered the opening slot for Nine Inch Nails in the summer of 2005, we chose to go into a financial hole in order to say yes. Our nightly paycheck covered about a third of what it cost to hire a crew and keep up with their tour buses, and we lost thousands of dollars. It’s a financial decision I’ve never regretted; I still meet fans, years later, who found me on that tour and have stuck with me ever since. Those things pay off.
Unfortunately Eisley didn’t reach their Kickstarter goal (so it went completely unfunded, as per the all-or-nothing Kickstarter model); but they went on the tour anyway and there was an angry backlash from their fans, who accused them of acting dishonestly. The fans asked: “if you didn’t need the money to begin with…why did you crowdfund??” Two of the members of the group were planning to bring their babies on tour, a fact that got dragged into the whole kerfuffle. Eisley defended themselves in an open letter, pointing out they’d managed to borrow the money from their families and their label, and they defended themselves specifically against people accusing them of tastelessly begging for money for baby formula, with the rebuttal that all their babies were breastfeeding…and thus weren’t planning to spend a dime of that crowdfunding money on baby formula.
But honestly? Why shouldn’t they buy baby formula with that money? It’s just there on the list of stuff they need to survive on tour, up there with everything else like gas, food, and capital to print t-shirts. It would be a like a diabetic singer promising her fans that she wasn’t going to spend her Kickstarter tour money on insulin.

When you’re a crowdfunding artist, it shouldn’t matter what your choices are as long as you’re delivering your side of the bargain — the art, the music. It shouldn’t matter whether you’re spending money on guitar picks, rent, printer paper, diapers, college loans, or the special brand of organic absinthe you use to find your late-night muse…. as long as art is making it out the other side and making your patrons happy.

The money we need to live is often indistinguishable from the money we need to make art. We need all sorts of stuff to make art with. MAYBE I EVEN NEED THIS BABY TO MAKE ART. Who knows?
As to your question about the timing of all this…no, it wasn’t schemed. I’ve been intending to use patreon since it was founded two years ago, because I love the idea of giving my fans a way to just pay me whenever I actually release content, instead of relying on a tired, outdated system of making one big-old fashioned record every couple of years. It feels way more sane, actually, as the impending unpredictability of parenthood approaches, to be able to work whenever I’m inspired and can make the time, instead of working on the forced, binge-and-purge, feast-or-famine cycle that I was stuck on when I was on a major label who didn’t care much about my quality of life.
I love the idea of getting paid for my work, when I work, by the people who want me to work. (Like you. Unless you stop wanting it. Which is fine. We’re in an open relationship. You can leave anytime. You can even come back. I’m fine with that.)
And if you already think that my output is getting too weird, or too dull: at least you don’t have to worry that the baby will turn me into one of those obnoxious songwriters who picks up a ukulele and…let’s just admit that I clearly jumped the ukulele shark years ago, and it was REALLY liberating. Though, honestly, if what you’re waiting around for is “the really gritty, complex, emotional good stuff…”…I’ll be really surprised if pushing a SMALL HUMAN OUT OF MY VAGINA doesn’t also rip my heart open and provide some really, profound new artistic perspectives. It might take me a second to recover from you know, childbirth, before I start writing again, but just give me a second. Don’t strangle me if I decide to go into labor without a notebook in my hand, jotting down inspirational lyrics.
In closing, dear Worried, if you really are worried about me, and you are with me in sensitive camaraderie, I humbly ask one thing:
please don’t terrify and jinx me right now.
Not when I’m just about to jump into this net that I’m praying will appear to catch me, my art, and this baby…all at the same time.
I love you,
Amanda
This piece was initially drafted for BBC’s “Fourthought”….you can hear me reading the first draft of it at the Hay Literary festival, live for a radio-studio audience in the BBC tent, here.
For the curious and/or supportive, here’s the link to my patreon: https://www.patreon.com/amandapalmer…if you’d like to join, friday will hopefully bring to your inbox the full backstory, gallery and time-lapse documentary of the library-statue project made by my longtime friend and collaborator, filmmaker Michael Pope. The Dad Record will be coming sometime this winter or spring. The patrons are going to help me determine how to release it.
And you’ve never heard my music, here’s a primer: http://amandalanda.amandapalmer.net/
Thank you for reading, I hope the discussion continues. And thanks, Medium.

*photo care of http://www.elegantlypregnantafrica.co.za/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/Ways-to-Help-Get-Pregnant.jpg?e96983
performer, writer, giver, taker, yeller, listener, love-lover, rule-hater…my book “THE ART OF ASKING” is out now: http://bit.ly/AFPweb.
I’m going to tell you a secret. There is a skill you can master which will guarantee everything you do will improve by at least 50%, but probably more like 100%, and more over time.
The best part about this skill is that it’s easy. Anyone can obtain it. You don’t need to have any particular natural talent. You don’t need any resources or teachers to master it. Once you have it and it becomes a part of your every operation you will begin to achieve at an accelerating rate. Your success will compound and your reputation will bring you more opportunities.
In the words of Morpheus, “Do you want to know what it is?”
That’s it. Read it again. Let it sink in.
What does it look like in practice? Responding to emails immediately, and never taking longer than 24 hours to do so. Showing up for everything you’ve said you’d show up for. Finishing everything you’ve said you’d finish and on time. When you say “I’ll read that book,” or “I’ll check out that website,” or “I’ll send my resume,” doing it. Immediately. If you can’t or won’t, don’t say those things. Every time you say you’ll do something and don’t, you’ve missed an opportunity to be better than the majority of your peers and build social capital.
In 90% of situations I’d take someone with coherent same-day responses to all communications who always delivers as promised and when promised over someone with mastery over just about any skill I can think of. I’m not alone in this. The desperate need for hard working, reliable people who communicate immediately all the time is off the charts.
If you make people wait for responses or wonder if you’ll ever follow through, you’ve cost them, even if only psychologically. People don’t tend to want to work with people who cost them — they want to work with people who they never have to expend any mental energy worrying about. They want to work with people who pleasantly surprise them by over-delivering.
Anyone can be the person who always follows through, always communicates, always delivers, and never leaves anyone hanging or in the dark. It’s only a matter of will and discipline.
Just get stuff done.
Isaac Morehouse is an entrepreneur, thinker, and communicator dedicated to the relentless pursuit of freedom. He is the founder and CEO of Praxis, an intensive one-year program combining real-world business experience with personal coaching, professional development projects, and interdisciplinary education for those who want more than college.
Originally published as “The Secret Skill That Beats All the Rest” at www.discoverpraxis.com on May 22, 2015.
Founder & CEO of Praxis
Where unconventional paths in entrepreneurship, personal development, and education meet.
At Appbot we get to see a lot of app icons while providing insights into app reviews.
In the past I have studied everything from app descriptions, to screenshots, to names, to countries. The one that has always really interested me most was app icons, but I never came up with an idea on how to really study what is effective.
Recently I stumbled across a cool Ruby library called Miro that extracts the dominant colors from an image.
Finding the dominant colors of apps shows some really interesting results.

Next I took the standard Web Colors (plus added yellow) and matched each web color to the closest. This grouped them into approximate names.
#02601e -> Green#a8120c -> Maroon#0c44de -> Blue#bdbfc0 -> Silver#f4b510 -> Yellow#717973 -> Gray#24721b -> Green#2d0d0e -> Black

Ignoring black, white & grey and taking the four most common colors I plotted them on the a ‘Color Wheel’.
The large size of the icon represents a larger percentage of the icon containing that color.


Plotting the top 200 free apps on the Color Wheel gives us:
We find large clusters of blue and red app icons, with a scattering of green. Pink and purple is under represented, with Snapchat owning yellow.

The top 200 paid iOS apps differ slightly from free.
Although there are similar groupings of blue, red and green to that of free, paid apps generally appear to use more colors with less having one color on the majority of the icon. This results on more of a spread and smaller icons on our Color Wheel.

Next I plotted the newest 100 iOS apps released to the App Store at the time of writing. The assumption was that this would give a more general representation of the overall store than the top charts.
This gave very similar results to that of the top paid charts.

All social networking apps are blue aren’t they? Twitter, Facebook etc.
Turns out the clusters are similar to all categories, if anything green is more represented.

Many games tend to have more complex icons than applications. This sees more of a spread in colors used.

It’s always felt that 90% of the apps in my OS X dock are blue, but is that the way it turns out in the top charts for Mac?
Turns out blue is similarly represented as it is on iOS, with also a lot of icon using red and green.

Graham from MacStories had a great suggestion on plotting the major color of an app against it’s chart position. I tried it for the top 100 free apps.
The larger the icon the higher up the charts the app was.

After posting the original copy of this article I had a bunch of requests for Google Play comparisons. My results are from the Australian store.
Looks pretty similar to me :)

For comparison to iOS.

This should really come down to your app, what it does and your target audience. However, maybe you fit into one of these three categories.
You like to follow the crowd, so go for blue or red.
Maybe you can go green, not the most popular, but you still aren’t being too risqué.
You laugh at the conformists, scoff at those who think they are different. Go for pink or purple and wear it like you own it.
I’m writing an eBook called “Secrets of the App Store”. Join my mailing list to download it first or follow me on Twitter @stuartkhall.
If you enjoyed this please help me out and recommend it. Why not check out Appbot while you are at it :)
Thanks for reading!
Stuart
Founder & Chief Bot @AppbotX
All about Growth Hacking, Mobile Marketing & Data Analytics

Tudo que eu queria era chegar logo em casa. A chuva fina que caia fez com acontecesse o de sempre: os taxis de São Paulo foram teleportados pro mesmo lugar pra onde vão os isqueiros e tampas de bic. Easy taxi! Nada. Nenhum taxista aceitou. 99. Nada. Merda. Impressionante, choveu os taxis daqui somem. Tenho certeza de que eles se reúnem todos em um barzinho pra esperar a chuva passar e rirem de nossas caras durante o processo.
Hum… tem o tal do Uber, né? Acho que tenho um voucher que recebi e… isso, R$ 20,00 de desconto. Aqui em São Paulo dá pra rodar umas duas quadras a 5km por hora. Vamos tentar. Instalando, cadastro e… é isso!
10 minutos e um carrão preto para na minha frente. Opa, que beleza, hein? Deve custar alguns anos de meu salário. Cheirinho de novo. Achei que só iria entrar em um carro desse em feirão de automóvel. Andar então…
- Boa tarde, senhor, muito bom poder atendê-lo. Pra onde vamos?- Boa tarde, amigo — educado o sujeito! — Pode seguir pela JK, vamos pegar a marginal.- Claro, senhor. A temperatura do carro está a seu agrado?- Sim, sim, obrigado.- A música lhe agrada? Tem alguma preferência?- Não, está ótima, pode deixar.
O sujeito está me tratando tão bem que estou achando que ele quer me comer. Porra, sabia que usar essas roupas de publicitário era roubada. Melhor eu dar bandeira de que não curto. E deixar claro que não tenho nada contra quem curte também.
- O senhor aceita um chocolate?- Quanto é?- É de graça, por favor, pode se servir.- De graça? — Opa, vou encher a mão aqui!
Rapaz… estranho isso. Sei lá, não estou acostumado com prestação de serviço assim não. Aqui em São Paulo quando um prestador de serviço lhe dá um sorriso pode conferir a conta novamente.
- Se quiser uma água tenho aqui e se precisar acessar a internet o veículo tem wi-fi.
Olha, que coisa… eu estava me sentindo um barão. É assim que um rico deve se sentir curtindo seu carrão com motorista. E tudo isso com R$ 20,00 de descon… CARALHO!!!! Que freiada foi essa? Puta merda! E que cace… ei!!!
- Desculpa, senhor, eles se jogaram na frente do carro!- Eles? Mas…
O que é isso?! Dezenas de sujeitos batendo no carro. Pancadas em todo canto. Ovos. Farinha. Que porra é essa!?!?! Os caras são… são… são taxistas!
- TAXISTAS, UNIDOS, JAMAIS SERÃO VENCIDOS! EI, UBER, VAI TOMAR NO RABO! O POVO NÃO É BOBO, QUER O TAXI NO COMANDO DE NOVO!
Palavras de ordem, turba violenta! Minha nossa! Eles estão tentando abrir as portas. Ei, calma, não, a porta não.
- Força aí nessa porta, Waldemar!- Segura aí, força, Roberval!- Opa, opa, abriu, abriu!!!- Tira o cara, tira o cara!
Me pegaram pelo colarinho, me tiraram do carro no braço! Porra, não tenho nada a ver com isso, só quero chegar em casa.
- Tá aqui, o passageiro tá na mão!- Quem tá na vez, quem tá na vez?!- Tonho é o da vez! Arrasta o cara, arrasta o cara!- É teu, Tonho, é teu!
Porra, esses putos estão me sequestrando é?!?!?
- Entra aí, compadre.- Mas que bosta é essa?- Livramos você desse motorista pirata, mermão, entra aí, vai logo!
Como se eu tivesse alternativa.
O coitado do motorista do Uber todo encolhido, os caras quebrando tudo. Que merda é essa. Me jogaram em um carro meia boca, cheirando a mofo e cigarro. O barulho lá de fora se misturava com a música gospel que tocava no som do carro e o chiado agudo do rádio da cooperativa.
- E aí, mano, vai pra onde? — Me perguntou um motorista com a camisa aberta até o umbigo, tipo Augustinho Carrara, e um palito na boca.
Sem opção, respondi.
- Vou pra Osasco e…- Ah, mano, Osasco? Nem fodendo, levo não, desce aí vai…

PS. Achei que inserindo chuva em uma CRÔNICA que acontece em São Paulo e terminando com esse final já deixaria claro se tratar de uma obra de ficção mas pelo jeito preciso ESCREVER isso porque tem gente que realmente não conseguiu perceber… vai lá, né…
Gostou do texto? Se gostou clica aí no “recommend”, logo abaixo, e ajude mais pessoas a conhecê-lo.
A primeira publicação brasileira no Medium. Uma produção colaborativa de histórias e tendências para instigar você!


This ultimate list is made for entrepreneurs, startups or anyone who want to become better in life and work. And i believe this will deliver some value or any value to someone or any one.
So let’s get started with free apps/tools today and make things happen!















































































































































If you liked this post, do click ♥ below and share with people around so others can enjoy this too.
Written by @terrytsang811, founder of entrepreneurguide.me — the awesome free guide for entrepreneurs, startups, freelancers, businesses and you. I also built plugins for WooCommerce and WordPress. To learn more and get in touch, visit http://terrytsang.com.
Entrepreneur . Business . Life
Sharing our ideas and experiences
We all love our coworkers, don’t we? Sure we do. Especially if one of them is reading over your shoulder right now.
But according to science, four out of five coworkers are annoying. There are many ways to deal with annoying coworkers, but obviously the most effective way is to picture them as rappers.
Picturing your coworkers as rappers makes you laugh and provides a helpful nickname that can be used when talking about them behind their backs. Here are a few.
When Two Cent asks if he can tell you what he thinks, it’s a rhetorical question. So, you play along and say yes, then sit there nodding. It doesn’t matter if it’s an email he wasn’t originally sent or a meeting he wasn’t originally invited to, he’s always there and ready to share his thoughts.
No matter what you do, you can’t get this coworker out of his cubicle. He skips meetings, he skips lunch, he sometimes even skips going home. If you approach his cubicle, he treats you like an alien from some faraway planet, which is exactly how you feel about him.
Like clockwork, you get an email from this coworker every Monday, Wednesday and/or Friday morning saying he’s working from home. You’ve started using his desk for cupcake parties.
If this coworker is already overloaded with work, why does he keep volunteering for more? Probably because he loves complaining that he worked all weekend and hasn’t slept in days.
No one expects perfection, except Nit Picky Minaj. No matter how hard you try to distract her with glaringly obvious mistakes, she skips past those and points out 10 ridiculously tiny things that no one else will care about.
EmineMBA is scheduling meetings for 8am, writing 20 page documents, and always wants to “pick your brain”. The summer never seemed so long.
You want to do it your way? Try again. Young Buck the System will never follow the process you set up, even if it did take you a year to do. You try to teach him a lesson or two, but no matter what you do, nothing gets through.
With Snoop Snoopy Dog, you need a screen protector for your screen protector. Whenever he’s near, his eyes are darting from your laptop to your phone to your tablet and back again. He should just take a picture, and there’s a good chance he has.
Young Sneezy is ill, but not in a good way. You tell him to go home, but he says he’s fine. Between sneezes and coughs, he’s touching your chair, your keyboard and your monitor, which explains why your desk smells like anti-bacterial soap.
Where’s the fire? There is no fire, but he’s in a rush anyway. He won’t wait for you to get off the phone before he starts talking, get out of the conference room before he’s starting his own meeting, or finish your sentence before he’s already replied to the email.
If you enjoyed this, follow The Cooper Review on Facebook!
Related: 14 Rap Lyrics You Can Use on Your Conference Call Today
Originally published at thecooperreview.com.
Comedy from the soul of my brain. Creator of http://TheCooperReview.com and author of upcoming book, 100 Tricks to Appear Smart in Meetings (October 2016)
Satire for Your Life Cereal
If you want people to like you, be 100% comfortable in your own skin. Hands down, there’s no more attractive quality than a person who is utterly comfortable with who they are. This quality transcends physical appearance, intelligence, education, income or personality. It is the cornerstone of success in business and in life.
Now, would you like the good news or the bad news?
The bad news, as you already suspect, is that your internal life is insanely complicated. Maybe your mother didn’t let you play with toys until you were 11, so you have low self-esteem. Maybe you grew up in the Pacific northwest and only saw the sun on every third Thursday, so you tend towards gloom and doom.
Maybe you are just brutally honest with yourself and have recognized that your hair isn’t quite as soft and supple as your most popular colleagues at work.
Just because I say “be comfortable in your own skin” doesn’t mean that — POOF! — you can instantly do it.
Now for the good news: your internal “comfort level” is not fixed; you can change it.
In the spirit of complete disclosure, if today you are insecure and self-critical, overnight you are not going to change into George Clooney. But you can certainly move in the right direction, and the more that you do, the more other people will like you.
To make progress, you need to do three things:
1.) Accept your qualities you cannot change. Don’t waste any psychic energy on all that stuff I said up top, such as how your parents raised you or whether your feet are too large. (If this is a sensitive point for you, I apologize and mean no offense.) By definition, being comfortable in your own skin means accepting your vulnerabilities as well as your strengths. For example, I have the skinniest ankles of any grown adult male you have ever seen, and it doesn’t bother me one whit.
2.) Recognize your ability to change is FAR greater than you once thought. You can’t change your height, but you can change how hard you work, how grateful you are for your blessings, how open you are to new ideas, how you approach difficult challenges, and how willing you are to pay the price for what you most want in life. This does not mean change is easy; it means change is possible.
3.) Be persistent. It takes time to build both confidence and competence. Invest the time, even on days when you feel as though you are sliding backward. Can you become utterly self-assured in a week? Nope. Can you do it over several years? Probably. Can you do it over a decade? Absolutely.
Why does this work?
To generalize a bit, no one likes incoherent thinking. We hate it when an attractive person complains about being unattractive. We dislike hearing someone make empty promises over and over again. Although we may not understand exactly what’s happening, we are not attracted to people who have obvious internal conflicts.
Or at least I’m guessing that’s what happens. All I know for sure is that most folks love people who accept who they are. You know what I mean: we’ve all seen people with obvious limitations utterly charm a room because they focus on their blessings rather than on their curses.
Personally, I’ve learned a lot about this subject by watching actors. How is it that Paul Giamatti can appear to be either totally charismatic and self-confident or weak and a total loser?
In 2001, the New York Times called Giamatti “an avatar of averageness: medium height and medium build, a little pale and unathletic-looking, with a receding hairline and not much of a chin.”
I’m no head-turner, but I can compete with that. Or maybe not. Here’s the rest of the NYT paragraph from which I lifted the above quote:
…his intense, friendly, nebbishy manner — he might remind you of Wallace Shawn or Woody Allen — along with his elastic features and infectious laugh have made him, if not a household name, at least one of the most employable supporting players in the business.
14 years later, Giamatti pretty much is a household name. This is a triumph of talent and confidence. He doesn’t have leading man looks, but his IMDB filmography just goes on and on and on.
When I have a bad week, I’m sometimes tempted to watch a big Hollywood star playing a complete loser. Think of Michael Douglas in Falling Down, where he plays an unemployed defense worker. The guy seems like such an average, pitiable loser… but in the back of my mind, I know he’s married to Catherine Zeta-Jones and that the two are Hollywood royalty.
Such a performance demonstrates that being comfortable in your own skin is not a function of how your skin looks; it is a function of what you believe inside.
My greatest lesson in life, bar none, is that people have a much greater ability to change than most recognize. So you have two choices.
If you like this article, please recommend it to help others find it!
Ghostwriter. LinkedIn Influencer. Skier. Will cross street to pat a dog. Check out my Day Old Lessons at http://www.kasanoff.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

Hi, my name is Isis. I’m a full-stack engineer at OneLogin. They asked me to be one of four others participating recruiting campaign that was hastily planned and executed in 1 day. I was not personally ready for the amount of attention that it has brought me.
I doubt that most of you know me. I am a passionate self-taught engineer, extreme introvert, science-nerd, anime-lover, college dropout, hip hop dancer, yoga teacher/hoop-dance teacher, really authentic friend and HUMAN(omg?!). In fact, if you knew me you would probably know that being famous is one of my biggest nightmares; seriously right up there with falling into a porta potty. I keep to myself most of the time and generally prefer when others mind their own business too.
I’m pretty blown away at the amount of attention my ad particularly has received. Friends have messaged me screenshots of their friends(who don’t know me) who have posted photos of it followed by discussion threads where it has received both positive and negative attention. Some of the responses warm my heart while others I consider to be kind of shocking… I will continue to post various threads that people send me on both sides of that spectrum.
I didn’t want or ask for any of this attention, but if I can use this to put a spotlight on gender issues in tech I consider that to be at least one win. The reality is that most people are well intentioned but genuinely blind to a lot of the crap that those who do not identify as male have to deal with. To list just a couple personal experiences:
I would like to add that both men responsible for these unfavorable experiences are not bad people. They are both socially-accepted, “smart” and “normal” guys. This illustrates one of the industry’s deep underlying issues. There is a significant lack of empathy and insight towards recognizing that their “playful/harmless” behavior is responsible for making others inappropriately uncomfortable. This industry’s culture fosters an unconscious lack of sensitivity towards those who do not fit a certain mold. I’m sure that every other woman and non-male identifying person in this field has a long list of mild to extreme personal offenses that they’ve just had to tolerate. I’m not trying to get anyone in trouble, fired or ruin anyone’s life. I just want to make it clear that we are all humans, and there are certain patterns of behavior that no one should have to tolerate while in a professional environment.
The negative opinions about this ad that strangers feel so compelled to share illustrate solid examples of the sexism that plagues tech.
“Caitlyn, when you were a man, we could talk about your athleticism, your business acumen,” Stewart said. “But now you’re a woman, which means your looks are really the only thing we care about.”
At the end of the day, this is just an ad campaign and it is targeted at engineers. This is not intended to be marketed towards any specific gender — segregated thoughts like that continue to perpetuate sexist thought-patterns in this industry.
As for the comments about the ad… Is it so unheard of that I genuinely care about my teammates? Some people think I’m not making “the right face”. Others think that this is unbelievable as to what “female engineers look like”. News flash: this isn’t by any means an attempt to label “what female engineers look like.” This is literally just ME, an example of ONE engineer at OneLogin. The ad is supposed to be authentic. My words, my face, and as far as I am concerned it is.
I didn’t ask for any of this attention, and I’m rather uncomfortable with all of it. I’m just a human and I prefer to keep my life simple/reserved, but it blows my mind that my fully-clothed smiling face with unbrushed hair and minimal makeup on a white wall is seemingly more controversial in some communities than this simply because of my gender:
Do you feel passionately about helping spread awareness and increase tech diversity?
Do you not fit the “cookie-cutter mold” of what people believe engineers “should look like?”
If you answered yes to any of these questions I invite you to help spread the word and help us redefine “what an engineer should look like”. #iLookLikeAnEngineer

My stories have become such a source of inspiration for so many people. I am now developing a team to build out www.ilooklikeanengineer.com, a safe platform for us all to continue to share our stories and experiences relating to diversity issues in tech. If you are a UX designer or know Ruby on Rails/Backbone and would like to help contribute, we would love to have you on board. Please reach out at the information provided on the landing page.
Some pretty amazing people, spearheaded by my co-workers wonderful wife Michelle, have joined together to make this movement make a lasting impact. I kind of fell backwards into all of this, but I really want to do everything I can to use the position that I am in to help make a positive impact. When this is all in the past, I would like to have created a larger impact on the community than simply generating a Twitter presence. Spreading awareness is the first step, but I want to help facilitate concise plans of action so we can create a genuine change. If you have any personal input and advice that you think could help make a difference please feel free to share it with me at isis@ilooklikeanengineer.com. You can help support us by checking out:

http://www.eventbrite.com/e/ilooklikeanengineer-with-isis-wenger-tickets-18026391422
Who knew one blog post could ignite such a profound movement? It can be very alienating to not fit a standard mold. Our goal is to bring together a diverse group of like-minded people from technology and science for a fun evening filled with activities, mingling and sharing our voices.
@isisAnchalee
*I give permission for press to use the material from this post*
Hoops and loops. Disrupting your sea of homogeny.
Home to some of the best articles on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.
It’s easy to fantasize about building a startup and making it big, but it’s much harder to turn those dreams into a reality. The media and entertainment industries have glamorized the process, neatly trimming the hard times of entrepreneurship to fit into feature length films and buzzy posts on social media. But for every story of a college kid turned billionaire, there’s an unsung hero hustling hard under the radar whom we can actually relate to. This is the story of how Ryan Graves helped build Uber.
Ryan started with a lot of hustle. He didn’t think he had any kind of intellectual capacity over anyone else that would set him apart. He’s not an engineer and wasn’t a great student. However, when he got to college, he realized the only way he was going to be successful was to out hustle everyone else. So that’s what he did. His grades picked up, and he began to develop a passion for hard work.
Ryan began putting career decisions first and soon found himself working at General Electric (GE). While at GE, however, he had an itch to build something himself. At GE, it was common to stay at the company your entire career and receive the gold watch upon retirement. Ryan didn’t want that. He wanted to start and grow something from scratch and try to make a dent in the world.
SocialDreamium was his side project while working at GE. It was essentially TweetDeck, and a short-lived project, but helped him gain product experience as a founder. With his co-founder, he wrote specs for products and sold them while wearing all the hats that startup founders do. It was an unsuccessful company, but it gave him the entrepreneurial outlet he needed while he was working at GE to feel alive.
If you’ve been following Uber over the past four or five years, this is the part of the story you’re probably familiar with: Ryan really wanted to get out of GE and work at a startup. His next attempt to break into startups was with Foursquare. After unsuccessfully applying several times, Ryan went door-to-door to bars and restaurants and convinced 30 prospects to run mayor deals on Foursquare. He sent his work to the company and was able to get an introduction to Dennis Crowley, who set him up with an internship at Foursquare.
While on Twitter one day, Ryan noticed a tweet from Travis Kalanick: “Looking for PM killer. Any tips?” Ryan was hustling and following Travis because he knew Travis was tapped into Silicon Valley and investing in companies. So Ryan followed up with: “Here’s a tip: email me,” and gave Travis his email. That was how he met Travis and Garrett. He flew out to New York to meet Travis and Garrett, and was finally able to capitalize on putting himself in the right position; he had a story to tell and Travis bought it. Ryan joined Travis and Garrett in getting ready to launch what was then called UberCab, eventually moving to San Francisco and growing Uber. It was all because of hustle, putting himself in the right position, and meeting as many people as possible.
Uber is killing it and Ryan’s there because he met Travis on Twitter. Travis isn’t the only person Ryan has met on Twitter; Ryan has made a lot of things happen on the platform. It’s not uncommon in the tech scene to meet people you would never have access to otherwise through Twitter. When you don’t have anything, you just have to hustle your ass off, and Twitter is one of the best ways to leverage your efforts.
Creating a successful startup means solving a problem in a scalable and profitable way. You can’t just go out there and talk to your users and do every single thing they want. You need to start with a problem. The problem Travis and Garrett found was very clear. The majority of incoming taxi requests on a Friday and Saturday night in San Francisco went completely unanswered. Clearly there was a problem there. Travis and Garrett developed a very elegant and simple solution for users (which hides a number of features on the back end that are quite complex) based on a real problem they personally experienced and were frustrated about. They scratched their own itch.
As you’re starting a company, not only do you need to be pretty excited about solving a problem, but you also must have a problem to solve. It’s easy to build another app because you can, chase the next social thing, or try becoming the next Uber for x, Airbnb for y, or Product Hunt for z, but there are a lot of real problems that are less sexy that have yet to be addressed. So find a problem and go after it.
Being an optimist in a startup environment can be difficult because everything is working against you. Building a company is like being in a boxing ring: you always need to be on your toes and you’re always getting clocked. People always think things aren’t going to work and that’s why, most of the time, things aren’t done.
It’s common for people to walk up to Ryan and say, “Oh man, I had the idea for Uber a few years ago. I did the research, but everybody said it couldn’t be done, so it didn’t make sense to do it.” As Ryan would think: maybe it doesn’t make sense. But the reason Uber exists now is because they believed it could be done and they were irrationally optimistic that they could get it done, and as a result, other people believed them too. Optimism breeds solutions. (Tweet)
It’s not fun to stay in on a Friday night when everyone else is out, but Ryan embraced this in ways many of us wouldn’t. Early on at Uber, Ryan spent his New Year’s Eves staring at Godview and making sure everything was working correctly. He wasn’t out throwing back champagne and partying it up. He was frantically on the phone with drivers and clients. He embraced personal sacrifice during a critical time in the business because he believed it would pay off. If you’re willing and able to do that, it’s going to set you off in the right direction.
Here’s a little more insight into this New Year’s Eve example. Ryan’s New Year’s Eve starts at 11:00pm, December 30th in San Francisco (6:00pm, December 31st in Sydney, Australia). Ryan and his team don’t stop working until 5:00am, January 1st in San Francisco. It’s basically a 30-hour marathon.
With all that being said, Ryan notes that you must take care of yourself. The media glorifies not sleeping and not taking vacations in startup life. It’s ok to realize that you do need to sleep and you do need to occasionally take a day off to recharge. No sleep isn’t cool. If you’re not well rested, then you’re not going to have the endurance to handle the biggest problems that are thrown at your company; you’re not going to have the energy to keep coming back at it after continually getting knocked down. Take care of yourself and have an outlet. When you take a weekend off and come back from that break, you are refreshed and excited to dig back in and take on the hard issues. Burnout does nothing to move your startup forward and undoes your previous sacrifices.
As an entrepreneur, there’s a ton of crazy ups and downs. You need to be able to talk to someone about what’s going on. When Ryan got off the phone with Travis from that initial tweet about Uber, he was so pumped. It was 1:30 in the morning, but his wife stayed up with him during the call and was totally supportive and happy for Ryan.
So Here’s the Kicker….
We’ve never actually met Ryan. We’ve never been to one of his interviews or his speaking engagements. We don’t personally know anybody that knows Ryan. We’re using the same hustle and grind that he’s used throughout his career to collect his advice here so more people can learn from him the same way we have.
Surprisingly, there’s not too much information about Ryan online. We scoured the internet and read every article that mentioned his name. We found several videos of Ryan and even found some old videos of him interviewing other entrepreneurs for a video blog he started in the mid 2000s (he actually interviewed Andrew Mason during the time when Groupon was called The Point). Lastly, we hunted through every single one of his tweets and direct messaged or cold emailed anyone that had a conversation with Ryan on Twitter to ask if they could provide us some information about him for this article. Most people didn’t respond, but we got enough responses to pull things together.
If you’re reading this, you know how much of a rat race Silicon Valley is. Outside of the Valley we constantly hear people tell us that it’s only about luck and timing. However, we believe that the Ryan Graves’ of the world would still be successful even if one of their initial companies didn’t work out. A quote attributed to Louis Pasteur says “Fortune favors the prepared mind.” People like Ryan Graves hustle, research, and prepare to know their industries and markets so well, that when the timing is right, they pounce on an opportunity and don’t look back.
So Ryan, we’re huge fans of your story (even if no one makes a movie about you, but they should) and we wanted to say thank you for showing us how to hustle and grind.
Co-authored by Danny Minutillo and Gabe Marcial
Find Gabe at gmarcial@tradecrafted.com or Twitter: @gabetheory
Find Danny at dminutillo@tradecrafted.com or Twitter: @danny_minutillo
Growth @Tradecraft | Excited about consumer tech and very early stage startups. Reach me at dminutillo@tradecrafted.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?



Got a graph/chart request? put it in the notes, or feel free to Tweet or throw it at Facebook. (Or you can find more over on Instagram)
I also have a desk for sale…
…and I write things when I'm not drawing things. Mostly about failing to do things, like this or like this other time.
Part 2 can be found here.
I write stuff, draw stuff, design stuff, build stuff. https://instagram.com/instachaaz/

When you’re a creative, unless you’re lucky enough to have a book deal or a paid publishing gig, you don’t have a lot of accountability. It’s a very privileged freedom, but it’s a freedom we pay for.
It means that most of the time, the world will keep spinning if you drop off the planet and never finish another piece of work. And it also means that you are the only one who can make you finish anything.
Because if you don’t push yourself, every day, to wake up and look in the mirror and ignore the feeling of near exhaustion that comes with balancing creativity and life itself, you could die without finishing anything.

There’s no end of examples of startup founders and rock stars and YA authors who have made absolute bank and never have to work another day in their lives. I wish I was one of them, believe me.
By all means, plan to make money. Work to make money. Capitalise financially on whatever success you have.
But if you want to build or create something of honesty and integrity, whether that’s a startup or an album of Japanese noise music, you have to be able to put aside that focus on getting rich.

We all want people to understand us, and understand our work, and understand what drives us. On some levels, the act of building something is an attempt to communicate in our own language. That could be an app, a line of code, or a book.
It’s going to get frustrating, and you’re going to want to scream.
You might even feel persecuted when people get the wrong end of the rope and try to hang you with it. Does it matter? No way. All that matters is that you listen to what drives you and you create what needs to be created.

Businesses can take a while to catch on, apps aren’t always an instant hit, and I’ve got news for the writers out there — even Kim Kardashian can’t sell more than 30,000 copies of a book. Most of us won’t be able to make a living off what we build right away. That’s where having a job comes in.
When all you want to do is work on your own project and create something that matters, it’s frustrating to have to set it aside every day and focus on the work that will make you money. The work that will pay the bills. The office job with the business suit or the 9-hour shift in a uniform you hate wearing.
But I challenge anyone to show me a job from which you can’t learn something. I flipped Burgers at McDonald’s for 5 years when all I wanted to do was paint skateboards, code websites and tour with a succession of shitty bands. It taught me how to manage people, how to manage my time, how to serve customers, and how to surprise and delight people when they don’t expect it.

The best thing I have ever written, in my honest opinion, is a 5-page short story about my experiences playing punk rock and hanging out with my best friends before life drove us apart. I love it, and I’m proud of it. Every now and then when I read through it, I honestly feel like I haven’t achieved the same raw emotion in anything I’ve created since.
Unfortunately, everyone I have shown it to can’t stand that piece of writing. They just can’t.
When John Romero made the video game Daikatana, he was creating the game that he dreamed of playing. Almost everyone hated it. I don’t know how he feels about it now or if he’s still as proud of it as he was when he first made it, but I do know that it was widely reviled.

There’s a flip-side to number 5. The work that you always felt let you down, the pieces and the concepts and companies that never quite lived up to your dreams could be what you are remembered for. You want to know why?

With the internet where it is, there’s no reason why you can’t turn what you build into at least a minor revenue stream. How? You treat it like a business. This is something I plan to expand on in a future post, but what it really comes down to is that…
You can take whatever creative work you are pursuing and turn it into a business if you try hard enough. But you have to treat it like a business. Have a product, have a marketing plan, and understand how to grow revenue. Read the $100 startup. Read almost any book on startups. Don’t be a starving artist, be a businessperson with a flair for painting.

…In fact, they’ll probably celebrate. Most people talk about Richard Branson, Paul McCartney and J.K. Rowling as though they were gods. Most people talk about entrepreneurs and creatives in hushed tones and admire them for being courageous and innovative.
I’m not sure why this is. I wish I was. As a general rule, if we all lived our lives by what the majority of people wanted us to do, there’d be no end of engineers, lawyers and doctors and there’d never be another novel published.
So when you start to doubt your path (and you will) there’s a good chance your friends won’t tell you to stick to your guns.

This is something that I find difficult to accept. It doesn’t matter how good anything I create is, it only matters that I get it finished.

You’ll never be able to create your best work if you don’t publish any work. You’ll never turn your startup into Google if you never get it past a landing page with an email sign up form and a vague concept of an MVP.
Read that line again until you believe it.
Now read it again until you can think of a better way of phrasing it.
See? It wasn’t perfect.
You have to be able to put aside your fears and your nervousness and commit to publishing your work, posting your music and launching your concept. You have to, because if you don’t, you will never accomplish the things you want to accomplish. And your dreams will die. And you’ll probably turn into a real tool.


See Also: https://medium.com/the-unlisted/how-to-make-something-people-give-a-shit-about-83486f42118c

Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

For many years, Photoshop was an ultimate go-to tool for designing digital interfaces. From simple web pages up to complex native apps.
Was, because designers most used software becomes out of date. I’ve realised this after trying its rising competitors — Sketch 3 and Affinity Designer. Frankly speaking, it was probably the first time I worked with different software than Adobe on UI design. I must say it was a very refreshing experience.
I’ve tried a different perspective. Another approach to UI design workflow and I liked it. It was Sketch that changed my look at my process. Because it’s intended to work as an interface design tool, its core logic is way different than the PS.
It embraces focusing on the design as… how to say, on the product? For me, its workflow is much closer to the way software/websites are developed. It won’t let you treat your design as painting canvas of some sort.
This experience results in this story. I realised how much software we’re using influence our workflow logic. Right now we’re at the very exciting moment. Photoshop is getting old. It’s slow, its core code is heavily outdated and after all it was made as photo editor not interface design tool. Former champion became lazy and got fat. At the same time rebels appeared. But none of them is perfect.
We’re right before the biggest change on the UI design tools market since Fireworks. It’ll go one way or another. Adobe will release the killing design soft, written from the ground, or its competitors will take the market for themselves.
Let’s stop for a minute and think — how would The Perfect UI design software look like? What toolset would suit designers needs perfectly and make our workflows most efficient? Or even revolutionise the way we’re designing interfaces? You can find mine 14 must-haves.
One of the biggest problems of Photoshop is its greediness. PS eats your computer memory like a monster and nonetheless — works slow. I recently found it difficult to work with one website design on MBP retina from 2014 with 8GBs of RAM.
It’s obvious that making software that’s faster and lighter is possible. Both Affinity Designer and Sketch beats Adobe flagship on his head.
No one likes when few hours of hard work wastes when software crashes. It’s a real problem with today design software. I think none of the most popular solutions works well enough.
Affinity has its child-age problems and crashes a lot, especially when using transparency tool. Photoshop is stable as rope bridge. I didn’t work in Sketch for some time, so I can’t tell how it looks today, but I recall some frustrating crashes.
Sketch is a winner here. Photoshop wasn’t meant as UI design tool at all. It’s photo editor in its core after all (regardless many additions here and there). Adobe introduced a beta version of UI design workspace in PS but come on. First of all they cut way too many functionalities. Second, it looks for me like Winamp skin. We need a truly dedicated software.
Meanwhile, Affinity looks little better than photoshop on this field but lacks any measurement tools. You can’t tell the distance between objects or scale an object by demanded percent value.
Sketch is almost perfect. Almost because it has almost every single feature needed, but it’s interface could be designed to be more usable.

For me, it’s a must have in today world. We’re designing for many devices, for many screen resolutions. Ability to easily rescale our work is a must have. Fortunately, software developers think the same.
Every single app I mentioned allows to create vector based designs. My favourite here is Affinity with its non-destructive booleans. The least comfortable to use is Sketch. It has limited capabilities.
You’ll need from time to time. To adjust photo colors or make some changes to raster graphics you use without leaving the app. Photoshop capabilities here are almost limitless.
Affinity has an efficient set of tools for the most of tasks. Besides this, there’s also sister app from Serif: Affinity Photo, which works great with the Designer.
Unfortunately, Sketch is really bad in this field. It’s almost impossible to perform any raster-based tasks in it. You may say it has its cons — It forces you to think carefully before putting something into your design, but. Sometimes you need to make some changes on the go. Sketch is clear looser here.
It’s my great problem with Photoshop. When you scale pixel layer down it’s being compressed and loose quality. Unless you convert it to a smart object first. But smart objects are heavy, slows down your work, and for me, they’re made for different tasks.
They’re great when you design e.g. button. You’re creating an object with button design then and copy it wherever you need creating instances. When you change button color, it changes everywhere. Great! But why making additional smarts just not to lose image quality when scaling?
Affinity is great here. You can scale an image ten times, and it preserves start quality. It’s awesome. I was amazed when I discovered it. Then thought come, that it should be obvious… thanks, Adobe, I felt like stone-age relic because PS take on that.
and give you a possibility to preview it in pixels in real time. And it has retina pixel mode! How great. None of the competitors comes even close.
The case? for me every single design should be grid based.
Beside that they can enhance UX by creating predictable patterns for users to follow. Yes, they’re crucial.
I’d like to have a simple tool for generating grids. One that will calculate and distribute them based on my inputs. I’d also love support for grid breakpoints, something no one supports today.
Just watch how it works in Sketch. I’d like to see it everywhere!
I’ve recently written an article about typography rules for beginners. You can find it here. Though I’ve outlined only the basics none of the most modern UI design tools supports all functions needed. No options of custom word spacing, hanging punctuation and so on.
Artboards allow you to create fixed frames on the open canvas. If you’re creating a responsive web design or a mobile app for different devices, you may want to turn each screen size into an Artboard. They’re great. Artboards allow you also to use smart objects or symbols across the design. All the screens in one file. Very convenient! Today, only Affinity Designer isn’t able to pull them off. I hope it’ll change soon.
New apps coming to the market means greater segmentation. Not everyone will be using the same product, and different teams have different workflows. In one the designer will send PSD files to the developer, in the other designer will produce a pack of assets for the developer. That means that a great software have to export designers work in different formats.
I like what Affinity is doing. It allows you to import PSD files (pretty well!) and export your Affinity made designs to PSD also! It’s great. PSD format is a standard after all and, it’ll stay that way for a while.
The last thing is very simple. In both Photoshop and sketch you can just right-click on the object and copy its CSS properties. It’s that easy. Affinity Designer lacks this function. And it needs to catch up on it very soon!
There is no perfect solution available for designers today. Although perspectives are promising. Above I’ve presented my vision. Things that are crucial for me to work smoothly and efficiently. I’m really curious, what would you like to see in The Perfect UI design tool? What functionalities would make you a better designer?
Thank you for reading,
Tom is a Senior Web Designer at GOG.com and freelance Product Designer & Art Director at Pixology.
Do you like my story? Share or recommend it please, I’ll be very grateful!
Senior Web Designer at GOG.com. Freelance product designer, art director and founder at Pixology. Music and typo lover. Gamer. http://www.behance.net/tomkoszyk
Interaction / Product / User Experience / User Interface / Design
There are Chinese and Russian translations of this article,and there’s a follow-up with Principle, Flinto for Mac & Tumult Hype.
I recreated the IF by IFTTT user onboarding in five different high-fidelity prototyping tools to get an idea of the differences between them: Proto.io, Pixate, Framer, Facebook’s Origami and RelativeWave’s Form.
See how these five recreations behave compared to the real thing:

Why did I select these five? I discovered that recreating something that is this animation-heavy (icons moving around in different directions and at different speeds) is not even possible in most prototyping packages. The majority of tools only let you connect static pages, while only the more complex ones let you animate different objects or layers within a given page.
I’ll explain it a bit more.
In a page-based tool, you lay out different screens, and then you make hotspots or buttons to connect them together. You tap a button somewhere on one screen to go to another screen. Page-based tools generally also have a choice of different transitions between screens, like fade in, slide in from the right, slide up from below, etc. It’s a bit clunky, but it’s a good way to make quick mockups when you’re still figuring out the flow of an app (which and how many screens are needed, how they would appear, where buttons should go, etc.).
Examples of page-based tools are: Briefs, InVision, Notism, Flinto, Fluid, Mockup.io, Prott, POP, Marvel, Balsamiq, Red Pen and Keynotopia. Granted, in some of these tools you can have animations or scrollable areas within a page, but you cannot use them to emulate every interaction possible in real native apps.
Every asset, interface element, or in other words, layer can be made tappable, swipe-able, draggable… but also animated. Prototyping a complete app in a tool like this would be crazy, though; it would be too much work (you might as well build the real app). But they’re great for trying out new interactions, or for tweaking the timing of an animation.
Proto.io, Pixate, Framer, Facebook’s Origami and RelativeWave’s Form are the tools I tried. To be honest, there are a few others — Axure and Indigo Studio — but they seem to be more enterprisey (read: rather expensive). I might try them out some other time.
So, onwards with the chosen ones.

Proto.io is a surprisingly powerful web app; it has many, many functions. But because everything works by drag-and-drop, clicking buttons and selecting values from lists, it can be a bit overwhelming sometimes to find the setting you need.
Because of the nature of the IF prototype — different objects moving at different speeds — I had to add several custom JavaScript calculations. The provided single-line text field was too small for the lengthy calculations so to have an overview I kept them in a text file on my computer. Important to note is that these JavaScript expressions can fail without warning. Be sure to check the console of your web browser when something doesn’t work. (I had an error caused by a variable containing a negative value.)
This is rather annoying: you have to click [Save Project] and then [Preview] every time you want see the result of the changes you made.
Not many. The animations are less fluid, though, because I had to attach many interactions containing custom JavaScript calculations to the scrollview. It’s not too bad on the web, but it’s way too slow on a device. Playback speed seems to be more normal for simpler prototypes.
view on Proto.io Spaces (sign up to import it to your account)

iOS app:Proto.io
Android app:Proto.io Player
Price:$29/month or $288/year for 5 active projects.There are also plans for 10, 15 or 30 active projects, and a free 15-day trial.

Pixate seems to strike the right balance between ease of use and functionality: it can do a lot more than the simpler page-based tools, but the learning curve is not too steep: after going through the User Guide and video tutorials you will be on your way. There are also several demos that you can deconstruct to see how they’re made.
Pixate Studio can use Xcode’s iOS Simulator (on Mac) to run the prototype. You can also connect with the iOS or Android app over local WiFi. This works great, especially because both (Simulator + app) update instantly.
The sixth page is missing, because the canvas in Pixate is only so wide.
view in app | download .pixate file

Mac or PC application:Pixate Studio
Mobile apps:iOS | Android
Price:Pixate StudioFree! (It used to be $149, until Google bought Pixate in July 2015.)Pixate Cloud$5/user/month or $50/user/year. (There is a free 30-day trial.)

As you probably know, Origami is built by the design team at Facebook working on Paper. Origami is not a standalone program, it’s kind of a plug-in for Quartz Composer, a visual programming environment that is part of Apple’s developer tools.
You program in Quartz Composer by connecting patches to each other. Different patches have different functions, and Origami is mainly a set of extra patches made for app UI design. Many people (not me, though) will prefer this to having to write code, but when you have to describe something like “if this, then do that, with the value from this calculation, but if not…” you’ll still have to program, but by connecting several patches instead of writing lines of code.
On a side note: IDEO also created a prototyping framework based on Quartz Composer, called Avocado. It has a few functions that might be handy for some projects: Bluetooth integration, an iOS interactive keyboard, a dial patch for scroll wheel-like interactions and a flippable card patch. Layers can also be made draggable.
This is going to be difficult. You can of course make a screen-recording of your prototype, but this defeats the purpose of making an interactive prototype; you might as well make something in After Effects. The only real way to try a prototype on another machine is to have the same setup. So if your client uses a Mac, she can install Quartz Composer + Origami to run your prototypes — after registering as an Apple Developer, of course.
It might run a bit slower than the real thing, depending on your computer. Quartz Composer is quite a power hog, and might have your computer’s fan spinning, especially when your Mac doesn’t have a powerful graphics card (like my Mac mini) or have a few monitors connected (guilty). I get maximum 20 fps, even when using just one monitor.
download .qtz file

Mac application:install instructions
iOS viewer:Origami Live
Price:Free! You do need an Apple Developer account, but that’s also free, as in beer, or whatever Apple developers might drink.

No dragging and dropping, pushing buttons, or connecting dots here — in Framer you will have to code. Programmers will feel at home, designers maybe less so. But it’s not too hard — Framer Studio uses a simplified version of JavaScript: CoffeeScript. But the fact that the actual engine (Framer.js) uses JavaScript makes for a lot of possibilities: you can do everything that’s possible in a web browser, so you can connect to servers to use live data, or create a Twitter client that shows real-time tweets.
With one click you can generate a public page (like this one), which can be viewed in Chrome or Safari, or in a mobile browser. (The link can be added to the iOS home screen as an ‘app’.) The same link can also be opened in the viewers (actually just chromeless browsers) for iOS and Android. A big prototype like this one might take several seconds to load in the viewer, but then it animates smoothly.
This prototype does a bit more than the other four: you can switch between the Sign in, Sign up and Reset Password modes on the last page. (You cannot actually log in or sign up, but even that would have been possible to recreate in Framer.)
view online | download .framer project

Mac application:Framer Studio
iOS app:Frameless
Android app:Framer
Price:Framer.js, the JavaScript framework, is open-source and free.Framer Studio is $99. (There is a free 14-day trial)

Form is still very young (it launched September 2014) and is clearly inspired by what Facebook and IDEO are creating on top of Quartz Composer. The folks at RelativeWave probably thought, “How would Origami look without the Quartz Composer baggage?” Origami users will feel right at home; many patches are the same and Form contains only the patches you need.
The prototype actually runs in the (WiFi or USB) connected iOS app. You’ll notice that there is no readout of the values when double-clicking a connection between two patches if no device is connected. A viewer in the Mac application, like in Quartz Composer, would definitely be handy, and seems to be planned.
The (free) iOS viewer can open .form files, so you can just email the file to the client for them to run on their iOS device.
Not many, I think. Let me know if you find any.
download .form file

Mac application:Form
iOS app:Form Viewer
Price:Free! The Mac application used to be $79.99, but when Google bought RelativeWave last November (only months after launch) they made it free.

If you have not yet used any of these, and want some quick prototyping done:
But if you’re ready to invest time into learning a powerful tool:
I’ve gotten acquainted with all of them (at least a bit), so I might use different tools for different situations:
Update: There’s now a follow-up:

These tools are all very young, and we’re all still figuring out what the best way would be to do interaction design, but I see a great future for Framer. I like the versatility and performance of Framer a lot, and I’ve found the perfect excuse to play with it some more: I’m writing a book about Framer!
The Framer book will be a manual for people without any programming experience, starting with the basics of CoffeeScript. It will also contain a bunch of tutorials in which you rebuild popular apps. And the book will show you how to add real data to your prototypes using a Parse or FireBase backend, or plug in live data from services like Twitter, Flickr, Dribbble, etc…
Sign up on framerbook.com to receive an early-bird discount when the book is released.
Originally published at cptv8.com.
iOS dev & app prototyper (Dutch, English, Spanish, some Русский)
A collection of design stories, tips, articles, tutorials on Sketch and prototyping, and more design content. Curated by the Sketch App Sources team ☺
We get it. You’re morally superior to the rest of us. Please stop writing posts on Medium about it and go to bed.
Coffee, Power Pop, Software, Cat-eye Glasses, Femme, and Queer. I worry about identity. Shoegaze bands turned me into a girl.








(and when you are done, read the FAQ)
If you subscribe to a subscription music service such as Spotify or Apple Music you probably pay $10 a month. And if you are like most people, you probably do so believing your money goes to the artists you listen to. Unfortunately, you are wrong.
The reality is only some of your money is paid to the artists you listen to. The rest of your money (and it’s probably most of your money) goes somewhere else. That “somewhere else” is decided by a small group of subscribers who have gained control over your money thanks to a mathematical flaw in how artist royalties are calculated. This flaw cheats real artists with real fans, rewards fake artists with no fans, and perhaps worst of all communicates to most streaming music subscribers a simple, awful, message: Your choices don’t count, and you don’t matter.
If you love music and want your money to go to the artists that you listen to, consider this simple hack. It’s easy to do, breaks no laws, does not violate any terms of service, directs more money to your favorite artists, but doesn’t actually require you to listen to any music, and best of all, it could force the music industry to make streaming royalties fair(er) for everyone. Sounds good, right?
So let’s cut to the chase. Here’s the hack:This September, when you aren’t listening to music, put your favorite indie artists on repeat, and turn the sound down low.
You might be saying “Wait a second, turn the sound down? How the heck does that do anything?”
Good question, let me explain.
Streaming services (Spotify, Apple, etc.) calculate royalties for artists by putting all of the subscription revenue in one big pool. The services then take out 30% for themselves. The remaining 70% is set aside for royalties.
This giant bag of royalties is then divided by the overall number of streams (aka “plays” or “listens”). The result is called the “per-stream royalty rate”.
The problem lies in the fact that this “Big Pool method” only cares about one thing, and one thing only: the overall number of streams. It does not care even a tiny little bit about how many subscribers generated those streams.
So why is this bad?
Imagine a hypothetical artist on a streaming service. Which do you think that artist would rather have: 10,000 fans who stream a song once, or one fan who streams it 10,001 times? Seems obvious, right? 10,000 fans is much better than one fan! But the Big Pool method, which only cares about the number of clicks, says the single person is worth more!
The message to artists and fans is crystal clear: the only fans that matter are the ones who click a lot. Everyone else can suck it.
This is bad for the artist, but astoundingly it’s even worse for streaming services: if each subscriber is paying $10 a month then those 10,000 subscribers would generate $1.2M in annual revenue, while the single user only generates a measly $120. Clearly the services benefit from getting more subscribers, not more streams, so why are they incentivizing streams and ignoring subscribers?
Even more backwards, the Big Pool method encourages the acquisition of heavy-usage subscribers, who are the easiest customers to get and retain (in fact most “music aficionados” are already subscribers), but offers little for light-usage subscribers, who are not only the hardest customers to get and retain, but are more profitable (by not requiring as much bandwidth) and most importantly dramatically greater in number.
It’s as if a car dealership paid the biggest commissions to the employees who sold the fewest number of cheap cars, and completely stiffed the employees who sold lots of expensive ones!
If the Big Pool rewards artists who get lots of streams, major labels can sign artists who can get a lot of streams. But what if artists aren’t the only ones getting lots of streams?
Click fraud is rarely discussed in the context of streaming music, but it’s fairly simple for a fraudster to generate more in royalties than they pay in subscription fees. All a fraudster has to do is set up a fake artist account with fake music, and then they can use bots to generate clicks for their pretend artist. If each stream is worth $0.007 a click, the fraudster only needs 1,429 streams to make their $10 subscription fee back, at which point additional clicks are pure profit. But that’s assuming they even paid $10 for the subscription in the first place: it’s possible to purchase stolen premium accounts on the black market, making the scheme profitable almost immediately. The potential profits are substantial: At Spotify it only takes 31 seconds of streaming to trigger a royalty payment, which means as many as 86,400 streams a month can be generated, resulting in over $600 of royalties. At Apple Music the threshold is just 20 seconds, making it hypothetically possible to clear 129,600 streams and $900 in royalties in just one month!
Awareness of click fraud in streaming music is so widespread that developers make apps to facilitate it. The services will tell you they work hard to make their systems secure, they pay bounties for people to find bugs, and once in a while they even catch and ban click frauders. But security researchers are not impressed, many people are not getting caught, and ultimately we have to confront the simple fact that there is no such thing as a foolproof way to prevent click fraud.
If the amount of click fraud activity on Google, Facebook, and Twitter is any indication (estimated to be over $6 billion a year), the problem could be far worse than any of the services will admit, or possibly even realize, and there’s no way for artists or fans to determine how much revenue has been stolen. It’s like someone sucking the oil out from under your property: you don’t even know it’s happening.
Click fraud is not the only way to cheat the system. One band made an album of completely silent tracks and told their “fans” to play the blank album on repeat while they slept. If a subscriber did as instructed the band earned $195 in royalties from that single subscriber in just one month. But if each subscriber only pays $10 in subscription fees, then where did the other $185 come from?
It came from people like you.
The media suggests that Spotify was the one being “scammed” by this “clever” and “brilliant” stunt, but in reality Spotify suffered no financial loss at all. The $20,000 that the band received didn’t come out of Spotify’s pockets, it came out of the 70% in royalties earmarked for artists. In essence what happened is every artist on Spotify got paid a little less thanks to an album with no music on it.
To understand why, we need to talk about how “average” can be an illusion.
One of the most misleading words used in the streaming music industry is the word “average”. You’ll often see streaming services bragging about how their “average” user is streaming x number of hours per day, particularly when they are pitching advertisers. But don’t be fooled by the word “average” here — it’s an illusion. Average does not mean typical.
Think of it this way: imagine you are in a room with a random group of people. What is the average income of everyone in the room? It’s likely that roughly half will be above average, and the other half will be below average.
Now what happens when Bill Gates walks into the room?
Everyone in the room is below average now, thanks to Bill.
The same effect is happening in streaming music: a small number of super-heavy-usage subscribers have raised the “average” usage to the point that most subscribers are now below average.
We can illustrate this with a graph:
To understand how heavy-users wind up in control of your money, it helps to look at how royalties flow at the individual level:
Every user pays $10 a month, which generates $7 in royalties. If the per-stream rate of $0.007 is determined by dividing overall revenue by overall plays, then simple math tells us the “average” subscriber is streaming 1,000 times (1,000 * $0.007 = $7.00).
So if you stream 200 tracks in a month you will send $1.40 to the artists you listened to (200 * $0.007 = $1.40), and the remaining $5.60 of your $7 is now up for grabs. So who’s grabbing it?
Well, let’s imagine a heavy-user who streams 1,800 tracks in a month. As a result of all this streaming they send $12.60 in royalties to the artists they listen to (1,800 * $0.007 = $12.60). Since they only contributed $7 towards royalties, they are $5.60 short. Guess where that money comes from?
You.
It’s worth noting that many (if not most) of these heavy-usage “subscribers” are probably not individuals at all. They are actually offices, restaurants, gyms, hair salons, etc. Businesses like these can stream up to 24 hours a day — far more you as an individual could ever hope to do. And they probably don’t share your taste in music either. But they pay the same $10 you do, so why do they get to decide where your money goes?
It’s like you bought a CD and the store told you that you had to listen to it 1,000 times, or they will give your money to Nickelback.
That’s fucked up.
There is a better way to approach streaming royalties, one which addresses all of these problems, and it’s called Subscriber Share.
The premise behind Subscriber Share is simple: the only artists that should receive your money are the artists you listen to. Subscriber Share simply divides up your $7 based on how much time you spend listening to each artist. So if you listen to an artist exclusively, then that artist will get the entire $7, but if you listen less they get proportionately less.
As an example, if you listen to Alt-J 25% of the time, then Alt-J would get $1.75 ($7.00 * 25% = $1.75):
Let’s compare this with the Big Pool: if you typically stream 200 streams per month (that’s roughly 13 hours of streaming), then playing Alt-J 25% of the time would equal 50 streams. Since each stream gets a flat $0.007 per stream, the band will recieve just 35 cents. (50 * $0.007 = $0.35)
Click here to see how this looks in real life, with a real subscriber.
A nice feature of Subscriber Share is that it is very difficult to turn a profit with click fraud: instead of turning $10 into $600, a fraudster would be turning $10 into $7, and would waste a lot of bandwidth while doing so.
If the fraudster used stolen premium accounts (reducing their cost from $10 to $1 per account), they could still make as much as $6 per account, but that is nowhere near as attractive as making $600 is it? And the difficulty level to do this at scale goes way up. If the industry switched to Subscriber Share most click frauders would move to greener pastures.
Subscriber Share can also be a huge benefit to small bands just starting out. If a band has a respectable fan base of 5,000 fans then they need $12.06 from every one of these fans in order to earn the federal minimum wage for four people, $60,320. In years past they would sell their fans a CD. But now under the Big Pool they need an ungodly number of streams to make minimum wage: 8.6 million streams.
This means every single fan has to stream the band’s music 1,716 times. Assuming a four minute song that’s over 114 hours of listening, and if their fanbase averages 200 streams per month then that means their fans would need to listen to the band 71% of the time for an entire year!
Subscriber Share only requires the fans to listen to the band 14.36% of the time, so if the typical fan averages 200 streams a month, then just 29 streams a month is sufficient, and the fan will only spend 22 hours in total listening to the band’s music. This is far more plausible for a new artist.
But intriguingly, Subscriber Share also enables fans to financially support an artist using even less effort: If a band can convince their 5,000 fans to listen to them exclusively for two months, the band will earn $70k, and the fans will only have to click once each month in order to do this.
Subscriber Share enables listeners to directly support the artists they care about without having to expend extraordinary amounts of energy to do so.
The result of Subscriber Share is that each and every fan winds up being far more valuable to artists. It honors the intent of the listener, and incentivizes getting more fans, bringing the goals of everyone (services, labels, artists and fans) into alignment.
If you think about it, this is how most of the genres we love got started in the first place. Hip hop, jazz, blues, reggae, punk, grunge, etc, all came from a small group of musicians, and a small group of fans, supporting each other. Who was the biggest beneficiary of this in the end? The music industry.
It boils down to two big obstacles: fear, and inertia.
To be fair, the music industry has been on the wrong end of the economic stick for well over a decade now, and talking about changing royalty methods just as it seems like things are about to get better is understandably scary.
The other problem is inertia. Institutions hate change, it’s expensive and hard, and you have to rethink everything attached to that change. Inevitably various special interests will arise and fight for the status quo. It can be very tricky to overcome their objections.
So it is difficult for the music industry to change, even when they know it’s in their best interest. They are like a cat stuck in a tree. They got themselves up, and can’t figure out how to get down.
If the industry is immobilized by fear, and can’t be persuaded to move in the right direction with logic, then one possible way to get them to get them out of the tree is to make it even scarier if they don’t move. In other words: We need to scare the cat out of the tree.
And that’s where our little hack comes in…

A critical aspect of streaming music services is that the services can’t tell if the volume is turned down. If the music is playing the “clicks” still count, even if no one is listening. This can be used to our advantage.
Normally a typical subscriber can’t keep up with heavy users, in part because many of these heavy users aren’t even individuals to begin with: they’re actually offices, hair salons, gyms, yoga studios, and restaurants. But if typical subscribers streamed music 24/7, and just turned the volume down when they weren’t listening, then maybe they could catch up!
And if these silent protestors streamed strictly independent artists, major labels would have to worry about the value of their streams decreasing! That could be enough to persuade them to reconsider the use of the Big Pool method, and if the major labels jump out of the Big Pool tree, the rest of the music industry will follow.
Even a small number of people engaging in this silent protest will have a measurable impact: just doing it for one day will double most people’s monthly consumption, and doing it for one week will result in more streams than a typical subscriber consumes in a year! But obviously the more the merrier. So let’s throw the idea out there and see what happens:
Note: It’s recommended that you turn the volume low, but not all the way to zero, and you should change your selected indie artist on a daily basis (or even better use playlists with multiple artists), so that you aren’t mistaken as a bot by the services.
If this works the music industry will be forced make royalties fair(er) for all musicians and fans. If it fails a couple of indie bands will get a bigger check than usual. What have we got to lose by trying?
A constantly updated FAQ can be found here
It’s that little box at the bottom on the right with an arrow coming out of the top. It looks like this:
Can’t get the word out unless you help get the word out!

Use in whatever way you like (Use as your social media profile pic in September, or sell t-shirts, bumper stickers, sponges, laser pointers, etc. if you want, it’s totally up to you!):
CEO & founder: @Bandago (van rental with fun stuff), father of two boys, ping pong enthusiast. Previously: guitarist & songwriter for @creeperlagoon
An ear for the new, a heart for the classics.

About me: I built Caskers. Now I’m building Native.
The Hair of the Dog is a sports bar located in the Lower East Side of Manhattan. Like most sports bars in New York, it has an ungodly number of televisions, a beer pong table and 3.5 stars on Yelp. More importantly though, Hair of the Dog has a single dollar price rating (“$”), which is really important when your goal is to be drunk by 3PM.
In October 2013, my cofounder and I were in negotiations to sell Caskers, an ecommerce site we founded just 1.5 years earlier that sold spirits (think booze, not ghosts) online. The negotiations had already dragged on for a few months, and we were just days away from our scheduled closing date. If you’ve ever been in the same situation before, you know that your mind starts wandering and thinking about all the possibilities that could still derail the sale of your company. It also starts thinking about ways you could spend millions of dollars, but you try not to put the cart before the horse.
The week before my company was sold, there was little I could do except sit around and wait. My team (there were three of us at the time — my cofounder, our first employee and me) would come into the office around 9AM and finish up whatever pressing tasks we had for the day by noon. Then, we’d head down to Hair of the Dog and try to kill time by drinking until happy hour ended at 8PM. The week we spent at Hair remains a hazy blur for me, but I’ve had more than a year of sobriety to reflect on the business that I started, grew and sold. These are the five most important lessons I learned from my time at Caskers.
Lesson #1: Be Frugal
While most startups these days seem to spend money lavishly, we built Caskers on a shoestring budget. We had come up with a business model that didn’t require inventory (much less office space). The backbone of our website was an ecommerce plugin for WordPress that was free. We customized a theme that we had purchased for $35 to the extent that we could, and hired a developer in India to help us build out what we couldn’t. Our largest initial expense was actually our logo, which we got after running three design contests and cost $800. In total, it only cost us $1,200 to build our entire website before launching.
After we launched, we focused on growing the company as frugally as possible.
Being incredibly frugal was the most important lesson I learned at Caskers. Since we never spent any money, we never had to worry about running out of cash. In addition, being frugal allowed us to offer incredible value to our customers: every dollar that we saved in terms of our own expenses was another dollar we could pass along to our customers in terms of lower prices.
Lesson #2. Be Relentless
When we launched Caskers, we had no marketing or advertising budget. As a result, I knew that we’d only be able to build brand awareness and acquire customers by (i) making a product that people loved and shared with their friends and (ii) getting editors at news publications to write about us.
I was relentless in hacking growth. Here are a few days I did it:

Ultimately, we were able to generate millions of dollars in revenue without spending a dime on customer acquisition.
Lesson #3: Be Experimental
We were focused on growing our community as fast as possible and experimented rapidly with new ideas. If something was working, we’d devote more of our time to it. If it wasn’t, we scrapped it and tried something new.
Here are a few examples of things we experimented with:
Experimenting with new ideas to market our company and sell spirits consumed a large amount of my time. Without experimenting though, Caskers would not have been a fun place to work. More importantly though, Caskers would not have grown as quickly as it did.
Lesson #4: Be Careful
Ultimately, a startup is the sum of all the things you do and all the things you don’t do. There were many things we didn’t do, some for better or worse.
Being a startup founder requires making live-or-die decisions with limited information and finite resources and under intense pressure. Making decisions quickly is important, but rushing into decisions is a mistake.
Lesson #5 Be Resolved
One of the greatest challenges I faced as a founder was to ignore the noise of other startups. While other startups were raising rounds seemingly effortlessly, it was difficult to accept, much less be proud of the fact that my company hadn’t raised a dime and didn’t employ anyone (other than my cofounder and me) for a long period of time. Looking back on it, it’s easy to wear our lean operation as a badge of honor but at the time, it felt like we were failing.
Each startup is unique and the best way to build a successful company is to capitalize on your strengths and overcome your weaknesses. I learned that I couldn’t be pressured by the success of other startups — I learned to be resolved so that I could build the company I wanted to build.
In terms of what I’ve learned, in terms of the experiences I’ve had, and in terms of the friendships I’ve formed, starting, growing and selling Caskers has been the greatest experience of my life. So Far.
About Me: I was the cofounder and CEO of @Caskers. Now I’m the founder and CEO of Native. Follow me on twitter.
I built @Caskers. Now I’m building @nativecosmetics.
Sharing our ideas and experiences
When Material Design was announced, I was impressed with Google’s efforts to raise their game in the design field. It’s something that Apple had always been ahead. Not anymore. I remember complaining a lot about Android design’s inconsistencies, lack of documentations, unattractive dark theme and overuse of the ambiguous Hamburger menu. Material Design solved a lot of that. It now offers a consistent design language that is lighter, more colorful, backed by solid guidelines that are well-considered.
But while the colors are pretty and the use of cards give a great sense of depth and tactility, I often asked myself, is this really better than Apple’s iOS Design as a lot of designers say it is? I’d like to give some of my thoughts on why I think it’s different, not necessarily better.
Let’s start with the 3 core principles in iOS: Clarity, Deference and Depth.
Clarity is about text legibility, obvious icons and good contrast. Clarity can also be platform-specific. What’s clear to iOS or Android users highly depend on what they’re familiar with. An icon may be instantly recognizable to iOS users but not to Android users, and vice versa.
Depth is another principle that both platforms share. But they approach the concept differently. iOS promotes blur and gradients while Android gives priority to drop shadows and the concept of paper.
Despite what most say, both platforms replicate real life in major ways. They’re skeuomorphic using blur, drop shadows and animations that use physics and realism of space. Skeuomorphic design was helpful to introduce new concepts using familiar metaphors, but the overly detailed textures and 3D effects definitely ran its course. As users, we outgrew it because technology is no longer so foreign to us. We’re at a phase where a leathered calendar or vinyl disc make less sense than a digital concept.
In both of these design languages, there are weaknesses.
For example, it looks off to have multiple layers of blur on top of each other. Also, the vibrancy added can be too much.
The card concept looks completely different on a circular screen. The card takes the full width. The alignment of the text feels off because there is a lot of unnecessary negative spacing. Lists are also hard to use on a circular screen since the corners hide a major part of the content.
These Android Wear faces look awesome though. This truly feels like the UI was made for a circular screen.




Deference is where it differs a lot. iOS gives total priority to the content while Android uses the concept of cards to make the content seem more tactile, thus losing important real estate in the left and right portions of the screen. The overwhelming colors also take priority over the content.
The FAB (floating action button) hides the content and gets in the way of the interactions.
Inversely in iOS, the focus is more on the content. The color of the UI is more neutral and contextual (they change based on the content). Vibrant colors are used minimally, mostly for actionable items.

There has been a long debate on whether we should use the Hamburger menu. That debate is far from over. Even Apple sparsely use it in their designs.
But it’s safe to say that we generally see them more in Android since Material Design encourages them.
iOS favors the Tab bar for navigation. Interestingly, LukeW pointed out that obvious always wins. Facebook switched to the Tab bar for iOS and they saw an important increase in user engagement.

But there are situations where the Hamburger menu can be a good idea, like when your most important content is your front page. Options inside it need to be secondary, like settings and logout.
Material Design uses colors prominently. Yes, they’re pretty. So was the Flat UI color palette. We can all agree that pastel colors look very nice in most situations, unlike the flashy ones that come by default in CSS or Xcode.
But Material Design uses those colors in their header, sometimes even to replace content. When you have a lot of competing colors, it de-prioritizes other elements.
Colors do have meanings, but those meanings can be quite limited (E.G. red means alert, yellow means warning, etc). Colors do express a brand, but branding shouldn’t be front and center in the UI of your app. In fact, the App Icon is the place where branding is most appropriate. So before you absolutely want to use a color alone in your header, you might want to consider something more expressive. Something that explains exactly what your app is about.
Again, that may make sense in Android, but not in iOS.

I have to admit that I used to think that having one design language that is consistent across all platforms is the best way to go. But unfortunately that lead to designing an Android app using the iOS design language. It made sense from my point of view, but ultimately it was bad for the users. Android users are simply not familiar with iOS.
Material Design’s goal to unify all platforms is a valiant effort, better than anything I’ve seen in this respect. But is it really the best way to go?
Is the Card concept really working on Android wear, which sometimes has a circular screen? It doesn’t seem like the language considered the devices first. Instead, it feels like an afterthought.
If you look at the Apple Watch, the design was completely rethought for the Watch. This means that there are new UI paradigms that had to be considered specifically for the Force Touch, the Digital Crown, wrist detection and the black bezel.
Everything from how the Material should be manipulated and elevated to how the colors should be combined is explained in their guide.
The good side of having strict style guides is that it’s hard to go wrong. It’s like Bootstrap. It provides a consistent and convenient system. The bad side is that it limits creativity and will make most apps homogeneous.

Don’t get me wrong, there are a lot of things that Material Design does right. It just seems like every designer sings praises without truly considering the weaknesses.
For one, their new Design spec is world-class, giving guidance on a variety of design topics that will benefit you beyond the scope of Material Design.
The concept of cards is one that generally works well across the board. It’s flexible and modular. It can definitely work with Web — designers have been using them way before Mobile came along. But I believe that the smaller the screen is, the less it makes sense.
As I mentioned before, pastel colors were hardly a new thing. But the Flat UI trend and Material Design really popularized it. We’re going back to the basics in order to achieve harmonious colors and beautiful typography. That’s a great thing. The more we know about the foundation of design, the better we can shape the pillars that come on top of it.
The animations in Material Design are elegant and delightful, albeit not as innovative as people make them out to be. Before iOS 7 came, transitional interfaces were still a fairly new concept. I’m glad that both guides are promoting smoother, more progressive animations to guide our users rather than scream at them for attention.
There will never be a perfect design language or template. The purpose of this piece is not to discourage one or the other, but to offer perspective their strengths and weaknesses. Design is about picking the best for the intent. So go ahead, experiment and see what works for your product. Just don’t forget to consider the people and devices that you’re designing for.
I wrote a few things about iOS, Android and code. You can find me on Twitter at @MengTo. Thanks for reading!
I design, code and write. @mengto
The most important news related to Android, Tech and everything else…

10) Always get the full story before making a decision.
9) It's incredibly easy to 'flip the switch' and start writing people off after a few bad experiences. Resist at all costs. You were bumbling once too. You made poor decisions. You learn and grow, and so does everybody else.
8) Sweep up the crumbs. Wipe the tables. Turn off the lights. Plug the holes that need plugging—even if it's menial, even if nobody will know you did it. Do it in service of the product, the company, and this wondrous, magical thing you are all building together.
7) Recognize you can't do everything. Close your eyes, fall backwards, and learn to trust.
6) Clearly, there is a more efficient way to do the things you do. How? Ponder that on your daily drive home.
5) Figure out which people rely on you and how you can help them be self-sufficient. You may feel important having a monopoly on salmon provisions, but if the whole village learns how to fish, it'll free you up to do something else. Like figuring out how to grow wheat. Or how to domesticate those cute wolf-pups.
4) Don't say anything if it's not actually contributing to the discussion. Your voice is not so melodious that it absolutely must be heard.
3) Making the best decision is not as important as putting in the right processes to ensure that the best decisions get made.
2) Dole out thanks and encouragement like you dole out opinions.
1) Above all, this: never, ever get in the way. It's better to twiddle your thumbs and squint up at the clouds than to obstruct progress for the sake of that stupid, childish thing called ego.
This is a personal list, and perhaps gently biased by what I do (manage designers) and where I work (Facebook) and how the imprint of many talented others have affected me. I don't claim to do all these things well nor every day. But this is the little voice that greets me in the morning, the whisper at the end of each day, the shadowy outline of some dazzling ideal that I catch a glimpse of every once in a blue moon. This is the aspiration. This is the manifesto.
Product design director @ Facebook. Self-professed tyro and lover of food, games, words. Follow me as @joulee or on  www.juliezhuo.com
A collection of essays by Julie Zhuo on design, building products, and observing life.

“If it turns out that this is incurable, would you marry me?” is not your traditional marriage proposal, but then again, Andy and I haven’t lived traditional lives.

Andy and I first met after literally running into each other at a White House reception honoring the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community in June of 2012. I was fortunate enough to have been invited after coming out publicly as a transgender woman while serving as student body president at American University just a month before. Andrew, 26 at the time, had come out as a transgender man several years prior and was now a leading LGBT health policy advocate in Washington, DC.
I hadn’t given our clumsy “meeting” at the White House much thought until I received a charming and suave Facebook message from that handsome guy two months later. His friends now tell me that he spent hours writing and re-writing the short message, in which he asked me out for coffee or drinks. After several online conversations and a few more chance encounters while I interned at the White House, we finally managed to find some time to go out for dinner.
We quickly found that we had far more in common than our transgender history, no doubt an important component of our identities, but still only one part. We both had a passion for law and politics, a love of “trash television” as he would call it, a desire to travel, and incessant need to be right. We both got involved in politics after an intense interest in film. We both loved Star Wars, although his love dwarfed anything I could muster. And we both had an obnoxious affinity for baby-talk and nicknames, he was the “big bean,” to my “little bean.” I still maintain that I certainly had the better deal: he was generous, loving, smart, funny, and enjoyed just the perfect mix of hard work and play. Many of the traits I’d find common in people from his beloved home state of Wisconsin.
In no time we were attached at the hip. Just a few weeks into our relationship he accompanied my family and me on a trip to Barbados. I quickly became part of his family and he quickly became part of mine. In no time, he was my partner and my best friend. To top it off, we even ended up becoming colleagues, when I joined him to work at the Center for American Progress. We began to talk about our future together, believing that it stretched far beyond anything we could imagine.
Our relationship took on a whole new dimension when Andrew was diagnosed with oral cancer in his tongue in September of 2013. I thought and hoped that the succeeding few months would be the toughest that we would have to endure for some time. In October, Andy underwent a twelve-hour surgery to remove part of his tongue and reconstruct it with a graft from his arm. Just as he relearned how to talk and eat, he had to undergo an intense regimen of radiation and chemotherapy that left him in so much pain that he could barely breath without a stabbing sensation in his mouth.
And then in April, he was proclaimed “cancer free!” As frightening and as stressful as that experience was, it gave us a bond that few couples our age develop so quickly. When we received the positive results in April, we knew we were not totally out of the woods yet, but we began to start to plan for our lives ahead.
But then the world that he had rebuilt after his first diagnosis came crashing back down in July of 2014 when he developed a mild, but persistent cough and chest pain. After several tests and a short hospital stay, the news came back like a punch in the gut: Andy’s cancer had returned and had spread to the lungs.
It was in the 24 hours after this news that Andy asked me, “If it turns out that this is incurable, would you marry me?” Of course the answer was yes. Andy had always wanted to get married, but prior to this new diagnosis, there was never any rush. He was only 28 and I was just out of college.
When we got the news that the illness was “life shortening,” as doctors say, his soul was understandably crushed. At the time, we were told that with treatment, he would probably have about a year left.
The next two weeks were a blur of silence, disbelief, and crying. Lots and lots of crying. Crying about the fear of death. Crying because he wouldn’t be able to see his family and friends grow up. Crying because, as he said, “he wouldn’t be around to say ‘I love you, bean,” or ‘I’m proud of you, bean.’”
And as the crying gave way to determination — determination to both live as long as possible and as much as possible — we decided to move forward with a wedding.
Andy was scheduled to start chemotherapy in the next few weeks in order to perpetuate his life. Because we thought we were operating with a year left, we tentatively set our wedding for mid-October. Both of us had always wanted a fall wedding anyway; the colors, the temperatures, and, for a DC couple, the lack of humidity were all appealing.

But on Thursday, August 14th, the third full day of Andrew’s second stay at our local hospital and two weeks before he was supposed to start treatment, one doctor threw a wrench into our plans and cold water on Andy’s hopes.
“I’m saying you might not make it to treatment,” the doctor said.
These were the first words I heard as I walked into Andy’s hospital room after taking a shower back at our apartment. As I came around the corner, I saw the stunned look on Andy’s face.
“So you think I may only have two weeks?” Andy asked, his face as white as the Wisconsin snow he may never see again.
“Yes,” the doctor continued and then paused. There was silence. I wasn’t quite sure where he was going next. He seemed to be deep in concentration, which would make sense given the gravity of the news he had just delivered.
“Hold on, there is a fly. Let me kill it.” He lifted his hands up, getting ready to smack the fly to death. The silence continued, only broken by a loud clap.
The body of the fly fell to the floor. The doctor paused again, said “hold on, let me pick it up,” as he slowly bent over, lifted the fly’s body, and threw it in the trash.
I wanted to scream at the doctor’s coldness, but I was stunned into silence by both the news and the indifference with which it was delivered.
After 45 seconds, which naturally felt like an hour, Andy, who couldn’t bare awkwardness, finally broke the silence and said to the doctor, “nice job.”
Eventually, the doctor continued. He instructed us that one of Andy’s lungs was failing at a rapid rate. “You need to decide whether you will want to go on a respirator. Just know, though, given your condition, if you go on a respirator, you will likely never be able to be taken off. And to put you on a respirator, you will have to be sedated, and, given your condition, you will likely never wake up.”
Moments later, another doctor came in and apologized profusely. It seems she had over-hydrated Andy after thinking his heart was racing from a lack of fluids. The doctor who had just delivered Andy’s “two-weeks notice,” seemed surprised and slightly relieved that there was a potentially reversible reason for the episode. The cardiologist prescribed some medications and reduced his fluid intake. Sure enough, Andy rebounded and by that afternoon was better than he had been since being admitted to the hospital in the first place.
As the two doctors left his room, we were confused. Did Andy have two weeks left or was his rapid decline of this morning merely a temporary problem that was easily fixed? Unsure, Andy turned to me and said, “Two weeks? I’m not ready for this ‘A Walk To Remember’ shit.” He had been fighting to live, but now it seemed he was merely fighting for a year.
Over the next few hours, neither doctor returned to our room with any more information. We asked any medical professional who entered our room for an update, from the nurses, to the palliative care team, to the young hospitalist. No one could provide much clarity as to what we were looking at in that moment. The general consensus was that Andy didn’t look like someone with two weeks left. In fact, by that evening, he was stable enough that the decision was made to discharge Andy in the next few days.
The next day, after Andy’s mother had suggested moving up the wedding, I broached the subject with him. He seemed to receive the idea well, although with concern that moving the date meant something about his prognosis. I explained that we weren’t moving the date because his prognosis had changed, but rather that the chemotherapy would take more out of him than we anticipated. Determined to reach the wedding, he said, “Let’s do it.”

The first full day back at the apartment, our friend and colleague Bishop Gene Robinson, the first openly gay bishop in any major Christian denomination, came by our apartment to discuss the possibility of a wedding. After talking with Bishop Gene for about an hour, we decided to move forward with a wedding that weekend, then just five days away.
Bishop Gene, as well as several close friends, offered to do all the planning, logistics, and organizing for the wedding. All we had to do was to get the marriage certificate, for me to buy my dress, and to make the occasional decision. Given Andy’s limitations, we decided that we would host the wedding on the roof of our apartment building, a beautiful space for about fifty that has magnificent 360 degree views of Washington, DC.
Over the next several days, as preparations for the wedding continued, Andy’s situation deteriorated. With each passing day, he could walk less and required a little more oxygen. He slept more and more. Daily tasks that once took five minutes for Andy, now took thirty minutes or an hour with the help of multiple people. Eventually, eating became a labor for him, taking him four hours to down fifteen spoonfuls of an ice-cream/medicine mix.
The only respite from the constant struggle to keep him nourished and hydrated came when I would talk with him about the wedding. You could tell he was trying his hardest to stay awake and alert for those conversations.
A few days earlier, Bishop Gene had sent us a draft of the wedding ceremony based on the Episcopal Church’s service. With Andy’s permission, I went through and edited it for us. I removed any mention of death in the ceremony and replaced it with “forever and ever.” Given his condition, I also reduced the amount of lines we had to speak to three simple sentences:
“I do.”
“That is my solemn vow.”
And, “Please accept this ring as a symbol of my abiding love.”
I knew he would not be able to remember these lines, so I wrote them out, as well as the last sentences before them. After working on the service for about an hour, I came out of our bedroom and asked him if we could go over it.
By this time, Andy was sleeping most of the day. His activities were looking less like someone with ten or even two months left, and more like someone who had a week or two. I tried reading the entire service to him, but he fell asleep pretty quickly. When he awoke, I decided to only read to him his parts and the sentences before his lines, including the line, “Will you honor and love her forever and ever?”
After I asked him if he was okay with that and told him that I had made a cheat sheet so he didn’t have to memorize anything, he started to drift off to sleep again. As his head began to fall back and his dreams came again, I heard him mumbling. I wasn’t sure if he needed something, so I walked over to his chair and leaned in.
He kept mumbling the same thing over and over again. I leaned in further to hear him more clearly, “forever and ever, forever and ever, forever and ever…”

The morning of our wedding — August 24, 2014 — came without incident. No shortness of breath. His eating had marginally improved. The weather, which had initially been forecast to be rainy, turned out to be the nicest day of the month. Mid-80s, sunny, just the right amount of breeze. Our families had come in from out of town. Old friends and new friends were ready and excited. It was turning out to be a beautiful, albeit bittersweet day.
I was getting ready in our neighbor’s apartment across the hall when about an hour before the ceremony one of Andy’s best friends knocked on the door. He was out of breath and clearly shaken.
“Andy just had an episode. He started to collapse and go unconscious when he was moving from his recliner to his wheelchair. He is awake and his vitals are okay right now, but we called the police and the EMT’s are on their way.” Luckily, my brother, a radiation oncologist, had offered to be with Andy while he got dressed for the wedding and was there to help.
With my hair up and my wedding dress still hanging on the wall, I ran over to our apartment. I found Andy in the recliner with my brother and our friends around him. I walked up and he apologized, “I’m sorry, are you mad at me?”
“Of course not, beanie,” my nickname for him, “Of course I’m not mad at you.”
As we heard the sirens approaching our building from the outside, my brother asked Andy several questions to ensure he hadn’t had a stroke.
“What is your name?”
“Andrew Cray.”
“Where are we?”
“My apartment in Washington, DC.”
“What is today?”
He got the date wrong by a few days, but also answered, “my wedding day.”
The EMT’s entered the apartment and made their way through the medical equipment and wedding supplies. With the caterer preparing the small amount of food for our wedding in the next room, the EMTs performed an EKG and consulted with my brother. Andy was adamant that he did not want to go into the hospital, knowing what that would mean for our wedding and for his chances at chemotherapy. With his vitals normal, the EMT’s acquiesced.
As they left, I asked Andy if he wanted to move the wedding into the apartment or to cancel it all together. He shook his head and said, “No, this is happening.”
As I walked back across the hall, my brother informed me that he wasn’t sure Andy could make it up to the roof in his wheelchair, but that we would see how he did over the next half an hour.
But my Andy rallied. With the help of three people, Andy was able to get into his dress clothes and, with oxygen in tow, he made it up to the roof.
I exited the elevator just as Andy was being wheeled onto the rooftop patio. As the elevator door slid open, I could see the back of Andy’s wheelchair moving down the narrow path to the opening on our roof where our wedding was to be held. As he approached the fifty family members, both blood and chosen, they started to applaud for him, unaware that just an hour earlier, EMT’s were in our apartment ready to take him to the hospital.
Clearly feeling as though he had conquered the world, Andy lifted his arm in triumph and gave the group a big thumbs up, his trademark. After they quickly switched Andy from the portable to stationary oxygen supply, I made my way out to the roof on my father’s arm.
I had no idea what my wedding was going to look like. Our friends had put it all together for us in five days with hardly anything more than a color preference from us. And it was beautiful. The bouquets included my favorite flowers — purple orchids and blue hydrangeas — a fact that was unknown by the friend who ordered them. Andy was stationed under a white tent surrounded by flowers and sitting in front of our dream officiate, Bishop Gene Robinson.
As I approached Andy, I could see him starting to choke up. We had always talked about getting married and he had asked me several times if I thought we would some day.
My mother says that it was clear Andy loved me from the first time we met and clearly always wanted to spend the rest of his life with me. I don’t know about that, but what I do know is that we were committed to each other for life long before we got married. Our ceremony on that day merely formalized, before family and by the state, what was already a reality between us. We had been through so much together. We were already bound together by both the superficial, like our love of reality television, and the deep, like our mutual commitment to equality and social justice. We had each walked beside the other during some of the most trying times in our lives.
Fortunately, we got through the ceremony without any problems. We exchanged our rings and committed ourselves to one another. He had forgotten the cheat sheet downstairs, so he improvised his lines. Shortening them so they wouldn’t make him short of breath or cause him to cough.
After taking a few pictures and receiving a few hugs, Andy was exhausted and decided to go back to our apartment with a few of his friends. I remained on the roof with our remaining guests for another hour and then went back downstairs to be with my new husband.
The first thirty-six hours of our marriage were a lot like the previous thirty-six. There was nagging over his food intake, a lot of sleeping, and a boatload of comforting reality television.
What was different was that Andy had three more episodes like the one he had just an hour before the wedding. Each time, he was about to move from his recliner to his wheelchair or from his wheelchair to the recliner. Andy was a nervous person and would clearly get anxious before these moves. As he got anxious, he was unable to adjust his breathing, would get light-headed, and begin to pass out. As we would temporarily up his oxygen and call his name, he would return to us. Within seconds, he would shake himself out of it and look at me. In typical Andy fashion, he would say, “I’m so sorry, love, are you mad at me?”
“No beanie, I’m not mad at you at all. I love you so much,” I would reply each time.

The next morning, by the grace of God, Andy was able to make it down to the car for the forty-minute drive to Johns Hopkins Hospital with me and his ex-girlfriend, Heather, to begin treatment that was meant to perpetuate his life.
We arrived at Hopkins to first meet with his oncologist prior to starting chemotherapy. As the doctor walked into the exam room, we knew things had changed. He hadn’t yet known about Andy’s episodes, but the blood work that was done the previous week showed some concerning numbers. The doctor warned us that we may not be able to proceed with chemotherapy today, but that he would send Andy up to the infusion room for some liquid, since he was, despite my attempts to prevent it, clearly dehydrated. After a few hours, he would re-evaluate Andy and determine what, if any treatment, he could give him. He also ordered more blood work and told us that he would come meet with us in the infusion center after the tests came back.
As we waited in the center for more information, it was clear that Andy’s situation was getting worse. In just a matter of a few hours, his oxygen hunger had increased dramatically. I heard rumblings from the nurses outside our station that one of the patients would need to be admitted.
I stepped outside and approached his infusion nurse and asked her what was happening. She said that they were going to have to admit Andy today. Both of us had been told that being admitted would make it highly unlikely that he was healthy enough for any life-perpetuating medical care.
I offered to tell him the news that I knew would shatter him. As I walked back, I opened the curtain with the nurse following behind. I tried as gently as possible to tell him that they were going to admit him. Ever the optimist, he knew what that meant, but he didn’t give up hope. He talked about how they could try to stabilize him again so that he could be ready for chemotherapy. Just as he gave me a wink of assurance, the medical oncologist returned and informed us that some of the tests had come back and the concerning numbers had jumped higher.
A few minutes later, I met with the oncologist outside of Andy’s station. He said that intubation, or the process of putting Andy on a respirator, was possibly imminent. He asked if he had any wishes on that front. He didn’t have to say what that meant as the fly-killing doctor from two weeks ago had already painted the grim picture: if intubated, Andy would never be able to be weaned off, nor would he likely ever wake up. I asked the oncologist how long we had to have the conversation. After all, he had just been given the news that he was being admitted. Couldn’t I give him some time? “Unfortunately, no.”
After Andy had been “upgraded rooms,” as I had jokingly put it to him during the admittance process, I said that for “precautionary reasons,” we needed to talk about the question of intubation. The nurse brought us a blank advance directive and we sat down for the first extended conversation since our wedding: whether or not he would want his life continued in a persistent vegetative state.
He stared at the paper for a good ten minutes. He asked if we had to talk about it now, but Heather and I informed him that the doctor said we needed to, again “as a precaution.” He sat with his pen for another few minutes and finally marked the box that said, “If my doctors certify that I am in a persistent vegetative state… and there is no reasonable expectation that I will ever regain consciousness…Keep me comfortable and allow natural death to occur.”
I called our family and friends to ask them to travel to Baltimore to be with us. His mother, step-father, father, and my mother came immediately. For the next two days, a rotating group of ten to twenty people stuck by our side at the hospital. The same group, which had organized our celebration of love just three days before, stood by in a circle of love in his hospital room as he slept more and more.
A day after he was admitted, he was unconscious nearly all the time. Every once in a while, he would regain consciousness, smile at us, squeeze our hands, and ask that his oxygen be turned up. He would rotate his fingers with a look of urgency in his eyes signaling his desire for more oxygen. Each time, we would have to inform him that the oxygen was as high as it could go.
Wednesday the 27th was the last day Andrew was awake. Just before he went back to sleep for the final time, I told him, “I love you.” He raised his eyebrows and mustered the energy to say four words back. These words would be the only words he would speak that day and the last words he would physically speak ever. “I love you, too.”
We were told the next morning it was probably only a matter of time. And echoing a conversation I had the night before with one of our best friends, the nurse said that sometimes you have to lean in and tell the person that it is “okay to go” because they are afraid of disappointing people. The group of five people in his room looked at each other and all thought, “that is so Andy.” So one by one we all leaned in and told Andy that it was “okay to go.”
I was both the first and last person to convey this message to him. I leaned in both times and said, “I love you, beanie, I’m going to miss you every day, but it’s okay for you to go. No one is going to be mad at you.” I then slipped a handwritten note into his clenched fist, which by then had become fairly cold. “You are loved,” it read.
Three hours later, his vitals began to drop. I called for everyone in the lounge to come in. We all stood there as his oxygenation level — the key stat for someone battling cancer in the lungs — dropped from a reasonably health 95 to 85. Then to 75. Then to 65. His numbers were reaching fatal levels.
Crying, we gathered around Andy in that circle of love which remained constant throughout his final stay in the hospital. A rainbow of family — gay and straight, trans and cisgender — held tightly onto him. His breathing diminished. His heart rate slowed. And at 3:30 PM on Thursday the 28th, with the gifts from our wedding five days earlier still unwrapped back in our apartment, Andy passed away.
That night, the group, which gathered to plan our wedding, gathered to plan his funeral. Bishop Gene, who had officiated at our wedding, would preside. Those who had stood at his bedside with me would eulogize him. The family of relatives and friends would join together again to mourn his passing.

His service was held at St. Thomas’ Episcopal Church in Washington, DC on Saturday. Bishop Gene wore the same frocks that he wore at the wedding the weekend before; he explained that Sunday’s wedding was a celebration of life and love, and so too was today.
Tributes from all around the country began to flow in. From the Mayor of DC, officials at the White House, state and national equality organizations, and from friends, relatives, acquaintances, and total strangers around the world who had been touched by Andy’s story and his work.
Andy was one of the amazing few who could draw upon their own life to help others without actually talking about himself. He worked tirelessly to bring joy, meaning, health, and fulfillment to others lives. He had stood up to the intolerance and prejudice in the world to live authentically, only to have cancer end his life a few years after he began to live true to himself.
There are many lessons I take from his passing, but the biggest is that though we may feel invincible, we never know how much time we have left. Life is too short for outdated dogmas to impede our own pursuit of happiness. Despite growing up in a progressive family and with open-minded friends, the expectation from the outside world that we must live, love, and identify based on one fact at birth, kept Andrew inside of himself for too long.
In his early twenties he finally had the courage to be happy and complete. Getting cancer was not a choice. There was nothing that he could have done to avoid his ending. But our society’s prejudice that kept him from being complete for most of his life is a choice. For Andrew, and for all the people who simply want to make the most of their lives, let us make the choice to stop the hate and to let love, light, and authenticity flourish.
And yet despite this tragic end, it’s clear that Andy lived with more purpose and realness in 28 years than most find in 60 or 80 years. He loved and was loved. He befriended and mentored without regard for status or interest in gain. He gave others courage through the bravery he demonstrated; not just throughout his struggle with cancer over the last year, but also through the authenticity with which he lived his own life every day. Through his work, he helped open up health care to hundreds of thousands of LGBT Americans and spearheaded the national effort to ensure that transgender people can access the care they desperately need, but are too often denied.
Few, if any, have ever taught me as much as Andy did. He taught me about life, perseverance, compassion, optimism, fidelity, and passion. He was one of the most impressive people I’ve ever met, yet one of the humblest (it’s amazing he could tolerate me). Even in his final weeks, he cried less about his own luck or plight, but about the things he would no longer be able to do for others. That was Andy.
So thank you for coming into my life, my bean. So many medical professionals said, given your state, you shouldn’t have made it to the wedding. But you did. I don’t know if you held on for me or for you. But, in the end, you gave me the best gift anyone could ever ask for. Thank you for sending me that first Facebook message in August of 2012 and thank you for marrying me one year ago. But most of all, thank you for being you.
‘Tis strange how men find time to hate, When life is all too short for love; But we, away from our own kind, A different life can live and prove. And early on a summer’s morn, As I go walking out with you, We’ll help the sun with our warm breath To clear away the dew, My love, To clear away the morning dew.

Political nerd, LGBT advocate, Delawarean, AU alum, board member at Equality Delaware, LGBT Progress Staff.  All opinions are my own and inherently right ;)
Here there is hope, humor, and help as you deepen your connection to others, yourself, and to your work.

I was looking for a more effective way to consume all the content I save during the day and fit it inside my busy schedule. I mostly save articles I see on Medium (+ occasionally articles from big tech websites), and my bookmark section is growing almost daily. The only thing is that I have no time to read them all. Even by end of the day… I hate myself for this, because I’m missing so many great stories.
I was thinking someone could read the articles to me (if I can’t handle it myself)… Maybe some app? Text-to-audio?
On the other hand, I still want to feel the emotion of the story and not listen to some robot reading. Every. Word. Separately. With. No. Accent.
Sooooooo what now?

I listen to a lot of podcasts, shows or talks in the background while I work or when I walk to the office, and I think it could be awesome to do the same thing with my saved Medium articles — listen to them as audio instead of reading them as text.
The whole functionality allowing this feature could be handled inside the existing mobile app. There is no need for a standalone app.
How?
Let’s take a look on the existing Medium iOS app and its article detail screen. Focus on the white bar in the bottom of the screen, which is used to introduce features available for each article. You can see “bookmark,” “like” and “share” icons. What about adding one more icon that allows you to play the article as audio?
It fits perfectly with the overall style of the app and fits the existing usage pattern of having similar features at the bottom of the screen.


If you want play the article as audio, you can just tap this little icon to open the audio player, and that’s it. Happy listening!
Nice, huh? Let's focus on the technical side now…


You may be wondering where all the audio content could be made, what kind of text-to-voice software could be used in the background, etc. I think there is no need for such things. Writers could record themselves reading their own work and attach it to the story as an audio file.
Of course, adding an audio version of you article should not be required. Once you finish writing your story in the current version of the app, you are asked to add a few tags to help readers find your story. I think there is the best opportunity to ask for one more thing — a recording of your story.
Note: Users should not be pushed to record anything, but if they are asked to do something extra, they may feel they are improving their readers’ experience by allowing them to consume articles in a new way.
To give you a better idea about how it could look, I made a quick mockup to compare the current version and my version:

I also tried to design a recording screen using the existing UI style and colors. Again, the whole flow fits the existing style of the app. It’s a bit similar to adding tags, which is already something you can do.
All you have to do is press the microphone button and start reading. I was also thinking about adding some kind of indicator for highlighting words to help you maintain rhythm/speed while recording your story. But I wasn’t sure about the correct implementation. It may be confusing for users if they loose track on this indicator, and it could mess up their recording.
Once you finish recording, you can save it and go back to the “publish” screen, which will be in a different (finished) state. You can see the tags you selected and attach the audio file you just recorded. Hit “publish,” and your story is out…
Of course, this is just a quick concept I came up with in a few hours. But imagine how many things could be added soon or later. Just to mention a few of them:
Got more ideas? Feel free to add comments :)

Is it just me, or do you guys have the same problem? Let me know in comments or write a short response to this article. It would also be interesting so know what the Medium staff thinks. I’ll keep you posted in case they contact me.
— — — — — — — — — —
Let's be friends!
Ales Nesetril, UI/UX designer with passion for minimalism & simplicity, currently working for STRV between Prague and San Francisco.
Twitter, Dribbble, Behance, Instagram, Email
STRV is a top-tier, one-stop mobile app development shop working with top-tier startups from Y Combinator and 500Startups, among others, across offices in San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York and Prague.
User Interface Designer with passion for minimalism & simplicity, currently at @STRVcom — #ui/ux, #skateboarding, #electronicmusic, #ps3
The Medium Community







For more detailed reads of the sketches above:
Product design director @ Facebook. Self-professed tyro and lover of food, games, words. Follow me as @joulee or on  www.juliezhuo.com
A collection of essays by Julie Zhuo on design, building products, and observing life.


In this quick write-up, we’ll cover how to take advantage of your existing knowledge of features in Sublime Text and apply them to another powerful tool in your arsenal — the Chrome DevTools.
Thanks to several modern tools including DevTools, JSBin and Codepen relying on the excellent CodeMirror editor, keyboard bindings like those in Sublime Text are more readily available elsewhere than they have been.
Let’s assume for the rest of this write-up that we’ll primarily be working inside the DevTools Sources panel — a feature which, when paired with Workspaces gives you a powerful in-browser editor.


Very similar to Sublime, DevTools has a Goto “Anything” dialog. This can take you to a specific file, a line number or a method definition. You can bring up the Goto “Anything” search using Ctrl/Cmd + P. This lets you search/filter through files just by starting to type in the files name. To search for a method — such as a JavaScript method or a CSS selector, use Ctrl/Cmd + Shift + P and start typing in the method name.

`Ctrl` + `G` will toggle a dialog allowing you to jump to a specific line in a file. If you wish to go to a line in the current file, bring up the dialog and type in a colon followed by the line number you are interested in. For example, :25 will take you to line 25. If you wish to go to a line in a different file, type in the file name, a colon and then the line number (e.g app.js:25).
Go to end of a line: `Alt` + `Right` or `Cmd` + `Right`Go to the start of a line: `Alt` + `Left` or `Cmd` + `Left`

Go to the start of a file: `Alt` + `Up` or `Cmd` + `Up`Go to the end of a file: `Alt` + `Down` or `Cmd` + `Down`
Go one word left: `Ctrl`+ `Left` or `Alt` + `Left`Go one word right: `Ctrl` + `Right` or `Alt` + `Right`
Go up a line: `Up`Go down a line: `Down`

A caret is that blinking line that indicates where you’re typing at the moment. Similar to Sublime Text, DevTools can have as many carets as you want.
Adding multiple Carets
You can start playing with carets by opening any supported file in Sources, then selecting each line by holding down `Cmd`/`Alt` and clicking wherever you would like to add a new caret.
For example, if you have multi-line JavaScript that needs to be prefixed, edited or wrapped in quotes, multiple carets can make this a breeze.
The following steps will quickly get every line selected:
1. Click on the first line2. While holding down `⌘` and `Option`3. Drag your mouse through the rest of the lines
You should now have a cursor somewhere on each line.
Use multiple carets from the front of a line
Use `Cmd` + `←` ( `Alt` + `←` for Windows/Linux) to bring all cursors to the front of the line, and then hold down `Option` while using the arrow keys to jump by word. When in front of the file name, simply type in your prefix and you’re done!
Wrap with Quotes or Brackets
Highlight the words with `Cmd` + `Shift` + `←` ( `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `←` for Windows/Linux) and type an opening quote or bracket. Dev tools will wrap each word in the selected quote or bracket.
Column selection
Carets can similarly be used for selecting custom columns of text. Hold down `Alt` and then click and drag over the region of text you would like to select. DevTools will highlight the area and you can now copy or edit it as needed.
Carets and matching words
Carets can also be used for highlighting specific words. Select a word in your editor (it can be a variable, method, or anything really). DevTools will highlight other instances of this word with a border around them.
Now use `Cmd` + `D` (or `Alt` + `D`) and DevTools will highlight and place multiple cursors on the matching words. This is particularly useful during batch rename operations. Hitting D a few more time while still holding ⌘ selects the next instance of the selection found. By hitting ⌘, then D three times, you can select three iterations of the text.

When working with non-complex pieces of code, you might find it tricky to find corresponding opening and closing brackets with your naked eye. `Ctrl` + `M` allows you to instantly move your cursor there. Using it twice will jump to its opening or closing counterpart.

We know the importance of indentation. It helps keep our code readable and easy to understand. To increase or decrease the current line’s indent, use the shortcuts below:
Indent text: `Tab`Unindent text: `Shift` + `Tab`

If you need to comment/uncomment a piece of code, the same shortcuts you would use for this in Sublime Text also apply:
Comment text: `Cmd`/`Ctrl` + `/`Uncomment text: `Cmd`/`Ctrl` + `/` on the same section of text.
This works across all languages and works pretty well with lines or whole selections.

When typing values in the DevTools Sources panel, you’re presented with autocompletions as you type. If however you dismiss these and would like to manually toggle autocompletion, you can do so with:
`Ctrl` + `Space`

You can cut, copy and paste text using the same shortcuts you’re used to in other editors:
Cut: `Cmd` + `X`Copy: `Cmd` + `C`Paste: `Cmd` + `V`Undo: `Cmd` + `Z`Soft undo: `Cmd` + `U`Redo: `Cmd` + `Y`

Note: ⇞ and ⇟ are page up and page down. On an Apple keyboard, you can page up/down by holding fn + ↑/↓
In the Sources pane, you can select a numeric value and easily increment or decrement the value using your keyboard. Highlight the value and then:
Increment CSS unit by 1: `Option` + `↑`Decrement CSS unit by 1: `Option` + `↓`Increment CSS unit by 10: `Option` + `⇟`Decrement CSS unit by 10: `Option` + `⇟`
The Styles pane also supports shortcuts for incrementing/decrementing values.
Increment value: ↑Decrement value: ↓Increment by 10: ⇞ or ⇧↑Decrement by 10: ⇟ or ⇧↓Increment by 100: ⇧⇞Decrement by 100: ⇧⇟Increment by 0.1: ⌥↑Decrement by 0.1: ⌥↓

DevTools can now also preserve your position cursor history in Sources. This lets you cycle through your previous editing locations using Alt- and Alt+:

If you’ve found the above shortcuts helpful, you can pull most of them up via the DevTools settings menu. It looks a little like this:

The Settings page also allows you to configure how the editor behaves. This includes customizing the default indendation, toggling bracket matching, autocompletion and the display of whitespace characters.


Similar to your editor, the DevTools UI can also be customized (the theming for the syntax highlighting, the colors across each of the panels, the look of UI elements like tabs). Some of these themes make intelligent use of color to highlight the key pieces of UI in DevTools without taking your focus away from the code.
Some of our choice picks for DevTools themes are the following:
To install a theme:
Boom. You should be good to go. Themes can be found in a number of places, including the Web Store, DevThemez.com and GitHub.

DevTools also supports a few nice debugging helpers that can further augment your daily editing & debugging workflow. For instance, while debugging you can preview the inline values of JavaScript variables at the current point in time. Super powerful.

We hope you’ve found these DevTools tips helpful!.
Many of the SublimeText equivalents we’ve covered here work equally as well in other editors and we encourage you to spend time learning about the shortcuts in apps you use regularly. They’re powerful stuff and can make a HUUUGE difference to your workflow.
If you’re hungry for more and want to continue improving your workflow, grab Wes’ Sublime Text Book + Videos — use the code DEVTOOLS for $11 off. You can also check-out the first episode of Totally Tooling Tips for a look at Sublime Text plugins.
Heartz ❤
Addy Osmani and Wes Bos
Engineer at Google working with the Chrome & Polymer teams • Creator of TodoMVC, @Yeoman, Material Design Lite, Web Starter Kit• Passionate about web tooling
Engineering and technology articles for developers, written and curated by Googlers. The views expressed are those of the authors and don’t necessarily reflect those of Google.

It’s the break-up that nobody talks about.
The one that tears you apart in ways your high school boyfriends and hazy nights with strangers at the bar never really prepared you for.
The hardest goodbye.
Your college boyfriend might have promised you forever and always, but deep down, you knew that he never really meant it — and even if he did, it was only because he was just as naive as you were. There was always a hint of doubt in the back of your mind.
But you’ve never, ever looked into your best friend’s eyes and thought “Maybe one day, we’ll never speak again.”
You’re eight years old and bruised from falling off your bike, face-first onto solid concrete, bloody knees and scraped elbows, but she’s next to you, holding your hand.
You’re fifteen and you’ve locked yourself in the school bathroom, tears streaming down your face from your very first heartbreak, but she’s handing you tissues under the door, insisting that you skip sixth period together for a much needed ice cream break.
You’re eighteen and it’s your third night on campus, and you’re huddled together on the bottom bunk watching a rerun of Friends, and you tell her about how scared and lost and excited you are for the next four years, and she whispers back — me too.
You’re twenty-one and thirteen shots in, wondering if this is really how you should’ve celebrated your birthday, but she’s right behind you, holding back your hair as you regurgitate a night of regrets into the graffiti-ed stalls of the local dive.
You’re twenty-three and waving goodbye from the train platform, as she stares out the window and your eyes meet — and you’re both off to cities on opposite coasts, knowing that the miles and the times zones that separate you will inevitably tear you apart.
Then before you know it, you’re twenty-five and so caught up, lost in your busy schedule of nine-to-five meetings, soul cycling, and a disastrous string of first dates. You’re checking your phone between errands when you see a text from a number you haven’t dialed in years, saying — “Hey, I’m in town, let’s catch up over coffee?”
So you’re sitting across the table and staring at the girl who first met your gaze across the brightly-decorated first grade classroom, who walked over to your desk and declared, “Let’s be best friends.”
She looks up from the murky brown swirl of half and half dissolving in the bitter cup of watered-down espresso. It’s the same blue eyes and freckled smile you’ve always known—and she laughs quietly as she tells you about this guy she’s seeing, and this project she’s working on, and this juice cleanse that she’s planning to try before her trip to Cabo — but it’s all a flutter of small talk and meaningless words.
You smile politely and look away.
The drifting dust sparkles in the dim cafe light, and the skies outside are a musty shade of grey.
All you can think about is skinned knees, mint chocolate chip ice cream, Ross and Rachel, birthday shots, graduation smiles, and that feeling of losing each other forever.
Everything is almost exactly the same as it once was.
But the coffee tastes burnt, and the afternoon fades, and you’re nothing more than strangers once again.
Avid lover of green tea, old films, classic novels, and the 1950s. Always trying to get ahead of light. I stand for #feminism and #womenintech.
Sharing our ideas and experiences

I visited Google a few weeks ago and, after almost getting arrested, my mind was blown.
First, Claudia wandered into the garage where they were actually making or fixing the driverless cars. When they finally realized she was wandering around, security had to escort her out.
We got scared and we thought we were going to get in trouble or thrown out.
Then we met with a friend high up at Google and learned some of the things Google was working on.
Nothing was related to search. Everything was related to curing cancer (a bracelet that can make all the cancer cells in your body move towards the bracelet), automating everything (cars just one of those things), Wi-Fi everywhere (Project Loon) and solving other “billion person problems”.
A problem wasn’t considered worthy unless it could solve a problem for a billion people.
So now Alphabet is aligning itself towards this strategy: a holding company that owns and invests in other companies that can solve billion person problems.
It’s not divided up by money. It’s divided up by mission.
I want to do this in my personal life also.
Just analyzing Larry Page’s quotes from the past ten years is a guidebook for “billion person success” and for personal success.
Here are some of his quotes (in bold):
“If you’re changing the world, you’re working on important things. You’re excited to get up in the morning.”
To have well-being in life you need three things: A) a feeling of competence or growth. B) good emotional relationships. C) freedom of choice.
Being able to wake up excited in the morning is an outcome of well-being.
Feeling like every day you are working on a billion-person problem will give you those three aspects of well-being.
At the very least, when I wake up I try to remember to ask: Who can I help today?
Because I’m a superhero and this is my secret identity.
“Especially in technology, we need revolutionary change, not incremental change.”
Too often we get stuck in “good enough”. If you build a business that supports your family and maybe provides for retirement then that is “good enough”.
If you write a book that sells 1000 copies then that is “good enough.”
You ever wonder why planes have gotten slower since 1965? The Dreamliner 787 is actually slower than the 747.
That’s ok. It’s good enough to get people across the world and save on fuel costs.
It’s only the people who push past the “good enough syndrome” that we hear about: Elon Musk building a space ship. Larry Page indexing all knowledge. Elizabeth Holmes potentially diagnosing all diseases with a pin prick.
Isaac Asimov wrote classic science fiction like “The Foundation Series” but it wasn’t good enough for him. He ended up writing 500 more books, writing more books than anyone in history.
Larry Page keeps pushing so that every day he wakes up knowing he’s going to go past “good enough” that day.
What does your “good enough” day look like. What’s one thing that moves you past that?
“My job as a leader is to make sure everybody in the company has great opportunities, and that they feel they’re having a meaningful impact and are contributing to the good of society.”
Whenever I’ve managed companies and have had the small opportunity to be a leader I’ve judged my success on only one thing:
Does the employee at night go home and call his or her parents and say, “guess what I did today!”
I’m not sure this always worked. But I do think Larry Page lifts all his employees to try to be better versions of themselves, to try to surpass him, to try and change the world.
If each employee can say, “who did I help today” and have an answer, then that is a good leader.
Empowering others, empowers you.
“Lots of companies don’t succeed over time. What do they fundamentally do wrong? They usually miss the future.”
The stock market is near all time highs. And yet every company in the original Dow Jones market index (except for GE) has gone out of business.
Even US Steel, which built every building in the country for an entire century, has gone bankrupt.
Never let the practical get in the way of the possible.
It’s practical to focus on what you can do right now.
But give yourself time in your life to wonder what is possible and to make even the slightest moves in that direction.
We’re at maybe 1% of what is possible. Despite the faster change, we’re still moving slow relative to the opportunities we have. I think a lot of that is because of the negativity… Every story I read is Google vs someone else. That’s boring. We should be focusing on building the things that don’t exist.
Sometimes I want to give up on whatever I’m working on. I’m not working on major billion person problems.
And sometimes I think I write too much about the same thing. Every day I try to think, “What new thing can I write today” and I actually get depressed when I can’t think of something totally new.
But I am working on things that I think can help people. And if you are out side of people’s comfort zones, if you are breaking the normal rules of society, people will try to pull you down.
Larry Page didn’t want to be defined by Google for his entire life. He wants to be defined by what he hasn’t yet done. What he might even be afraid to do.
I wonder what my life would be like if I started doing all the things I was afraid to do. If I started defining my life by all the things I have yet to do.
“Many leaders of big organizations, I think, don’t believe that change is possible. But if you look at history, things do change, and if your business is static, you’re likely to have issues.”
Guess which company had the original patent that ultimately Larry Page derived his own patent (that created google) from?
Go ahead. Think a second. Guess.
An employee of this company created the patent and tried to get them to use it to catalog information on the web.
They refused.
So Robin Li, an employee of The Wall Street Journal, quit the newspaper of capitalism (who owned his patent), moved to China (a communist country), and created Baidu.
And Larry Page modified the patent, filed his own, and created Google.
And the Wall Street Journal got swallowed up by Rupert Murdoch and is dying a slow death.
“I think as technologists we should have some safe places where we can try out new things and figure out the effect on society.”
A friend of mine is writing a novel but is afraid to publish it. “Maybe it will be bad,” he told me.
Fortunately we live in a world where experimentation is easy. You can make a 30 page novel, publish it on Amazon for nothing, use an assumed name, and test to see if people like it.
Heck, I’ve done it. And it was fun.
Mac Lethal is a rapper who has gotten over 200 million views on his YouTube videos. Even Ellen had him on her show to demonstrate his skills.
I asked him, “do you get nervous if one of your videos gets less views than others?”
He told me valuable advice: “Nobody remembers your bad stuff. They only remember your good stuff.”
I live by that.
“If we were motivated by money, we would have sold the company a long time ago and ended up on a beach.”
Larry Page and Sergey Brin wanted to be academics. When they first patented Google, they tried to sell to Yahoo for $1 million (ONE MILLION DOLLARS).
When Yahoo laughed them out the door, they tried to sell to Excite for $750,000.
Excite laughed them out the door. Now an ex-employee of Google is the CEO of Yahoo. And the founder of Excite works at Google. Google dominates.
Money is a side effect of trying to help others. Trying to solve problems. Trying to move beyond the “good enough”.
So many people ask: “how do I get traffic?” That’s the wrong question.
If you ask every day, “How did I help people today?” then you will have more traffic and money than you could have imagined.
“Invention is not enough. Tesla invented the electric power we use, but he struggled to get it out to people. You have to combine both things: invention and innovation focus, plus the company that can commercialize things and get them to people.”
Everyone quotes the iconic story of Thomas Edison “failing” 10,000 times to get the electric lightbulb working.
I put failing in quotes because he was doing what any scientist does. He does many experiments until one works.
But what he did that was truly remarkable was convince New York City a few weeks later to light up their downtown using his lights.
The first time ever a city was lit up at night with electricity.
That’s innovation. That’s how the entire world got lit up.
“If you say you want to automate cars and save people’s lives, the skills you need for that aren’t taught in any particular discipline. I know — I was interested in working on automating cars when I was a Ph.D. student in 1995.”
Too often we get labeled by our degree and our job titles. Larry Page and Elon Musk were computer science majors. Now they build cars and space ships.
David Chang was a competitive golfer as a kid, majored in religious studies in college, and then had random gopher jobs in his 20s.
The gopher jobs all happened to be in restaurants so he became familiar with how the business was run.
Then he started probably the most popular restaurant in NYC, momofoku. A dozen or so restaurants later, he is one of the most successful restauranteurs in history.
Peter Thiel worked as a lawyer in one of the top law firms in NY. When he quit in order to become an entrepreneur, he told me that many of his colleagues came up to him and said, “I can’t believe you are escaping”.
Escaping the labels and titles and hopes that everyone else has for us is one of the first steps in Choosing Ourselves for the success we are meant to have.
We define our lives from our imagination and the things we create with our hands.
“It really matters whether people are working on generating clean energy or improving transportation or making the Internet work better and all those things. And small groups of people can have a really huge impact.”
What I love about this quote is that he combines big problems with small groups.
A small group of people created Google. Not Procter & Gamble. Or AT&T.
Even at Apple, when Steve Jobs wanted to create the Macintosh, he moved his small group to a separate building so they wouldn’t get bogged down in the big corporate bureaucracy that Apple was becoming.
Ultimately, they fired him for being too far from the corporate message.
Years later, when Apple was failing, they brought him back. What did he do? He cut most of the products and put people into small groups to solve big problems.
Before his death he revolutionized the movie industry, the computer industry, the music industry, TVs, and now even watches (watch sales have plummeted after the release of the Apple Watch).
All of this from a guy who finished one semester of studying calligraphy in college before dropping out.
Studying the history of Apple is like studying a microcosm of the history of how to create big ideas. Larry Page is recreating this with his new corporate structure.
“We don’t have as many managers as we should, but we would rather have too few than too many.”
The 20th century was the century of middle-class corporatism. It even became a “law” called “The Peter Principle” — everyone rises to their level of incompetence.
One of the problems society is having now is that the entire middle layer of management is being demoted, outsourced, replaced by technology, and fired.
This is not a bad or a good thing (although it’s scary). But it’s a return to the role of masters and apprentices without bureaucracy and paperwork in the middle.
It’s how things get done. When ideas go from the head into action with few barriers in the middle.
To be a successful employee, you have to align your interests with those of the company, come up with ideas that further help the customers, and have the mandate to act on those ideas, whether they work or not.
That’s why the employee who wrote much of the code inside the Google search engine, Craig Silverstein, is now a billionaire.
Where is he now? He’s an employee at online education company, The Khan Academy.
“If you ask an economist what’s driven economic growth, it’s been major advances in things that mattered — the mechanization of farming, mass manufacturing, things like that. The problem is, our society is not organized around doing that.”
Google is now making advances in driverless cars, delivery drones, and other methods of automation.
Everyone gets worried that this will cost jobs. But just look at history. Cars didn’t ruin the horse industry. Everyone simply adjusted.
TV didn’t replace books. Everything adjusted. The VCR didn’t shut down movies.
The Internet didn’t replace face to face communication (well, the jury is still out).
“What is the one sentence summary of how you change the world? Always work hard on something uncomfortably exciting!”
Not everyone wants to create a driverless car. Or clean energy. Or solve a billion person problem.
But I have a list of things that are uncomfortably exciting to me.
They are small, stupid things. Like I’d like to write a novel. Or perform standup comedy. Or maybe start another business based on my ideas for helping people.
Every day I wake up a tiny bit afraid. But I also try to push myself a little closer in those directions. I know then that’s how I learn and grow.
Sometimes I push forward. Sometimes I don’t. I want to get more comfortable with being uncomfortable.
“I do think there is an important artistic component in what we do. As a technology company I’ve tried to really stress that.”
Nobody knows what the definition of Art is.
How about: something that doesn’t exist except in the imagination, that you then bring out into the real world that has some mix of entertainment, enlightenment, and betterment.
I don’t know. Something like that.
Certainly the iPad is a work of art. And the iPad has created works of art. And when I first saw a driverless car I thought, “that’s beautiful”.
I’m going to try and put my fingerprint on something today. And maybe it will be art.
“The idea that everyone should slavishly work so they do something inefficiently so they keep their job — that just doesn’t make any sense to me. That can’t be the right answer.”
We’ve been hypnotized into thinking that the “normal life” is a “working life”.
If you don’t “go to work” then you must be sick or on the tiny bit of vacation allotted to you each year.
What if everything you did you can inject a little bit of leisure, a little bit of fun into it.
I have fun writing, except when I think I have to meet a deadline (work). I have fun making a business that people actually use except when I think about money too much (work).
When you are at the crossroads and your heart loves one path and doesn’t love the other, forget about which path has the money and the work, take the path you love.
“We want to build technology that everybody loves using, and that affects everyone. We want to create beautiful, intuitive services and technologies that are so incredibly useful that people use them twice a day. Like they use a toothbrush. There aren’t that many things people use twice a day.”
What a great idea for a list of the day!
What are ten things that can be invented that people would use twice a day?
“You need to invent things and you need to get them to people. You need to commercialize those inventions. Obviously, the best way we’ve come up with doing that is through companies.”
I was speaking to Naveen Jain, who made his billions on an early search engine, InfoSpace.
He just started a company to mine rare earth minerals on the Moon.
But his real goal is extra-planetary colonization.
Somehow we got around to the question of why have a company in the middle of that. He has billions. He can just go straight for the colonization part.
He said, “Every idea has to be sustainable. Profitability is proof that an idea is sustainable.”
“You may think using Google’s great, but I still think it’s terrible.”
K. Anders Ericsson made famous the “10,000 hour rule” popularized later by Malcom Gladwell.
The rule is: if you practice WITH INTENT for 10,000 hours then you will be world-class.
He then wondered why typists would often reach a certain speed level and then never improve no matter how many hours.
After doing research, its because they forgot the “With intent” part. They were satisfied with “good enough”.
You have to constantly come up with new metrics to measure yourself, to compete against yourself, to better the last plateau you reached.
Google is great. But it can be better. Having this mindset always forces you to push beyond the comfort zone.
Once they changed the way typists viewed their skills (by recreating the feeling of “beginner’s mind”) the typists continued to get faster.
“We have a mantra: don’t be evil, which is to do the best things we know how for our users, for our customers, for everyone. So I think if we were known for that, it would be a wonderful thing.”
Many people argue whether or not Google has succeeded at this. That’s not the point.
The point is: Values before Money.
A business is a group of people with a goal to solve a problem. Values might be: we want to solve a problem, we want the customer to be happy, we want employees to feel like they have upward mobility, etc.
Once you lose your values, you’ll lost the money as well. This why family-run businesses often die by the third generation (“Shirt sleeves to shirt sleeves in three generations).
The values of the founder got diluted through his descendants until the company failed.
I spoke to Dick Yuengling about this (CEO of the largest independent beer maker and a fifth generation business).
His family found an interesting way to solve the problem. The business is not inherited. Each generation has to BUY the business from the generation before it.
To do that, each generation needs its own values, its new way of doing things that keeps the brand fresh and ongoing.
“I think it is often easier to make progress on mega-ambitious dreams. Since no one else is crazy enough to do it, you have little competition. In fact, there are so few people this crazy that I feel like I know them all by first name.”
Our parents have our best interests at heart and tell us how to be good adults.
Our schools have our best interests.
Our friends, colleagues, sometimes our bosses, sometimes government, think they have our best interests.
But it’s only when everyone thinks you are crazy that you know you are going to create something that surprises everyone and really makes your own unique handprint on the world.
And because you went out of the comfort zone, you’re only competing against the few other people as crazy as you are.
“You know what it’s like to wake up in the middle of the night with a vivid dream? And you know that if you don’t have a pencil and pad by the bed, it will be completely gone by the next morning. Sometimes it’s important to wake up and stop dreaming. When a really great dream shows up, grab it.”
For every article I’ve ever written, there’s at least ten more I left behind in the middle of the night thinking I would remember in the morning.
I have to beat myself in the head. I . Will. Not. Remember….Must. Write. Down.
It’s hard to wake up. And that’s the only thing worth remembering. It’s hard to wake up.
“I have always believed that technology should do the hard work — discovery, organization, communication — so users can do what makes them happiest: living and loving, not messing with annoying computers! That means making our products work together seamlessly.”
This is a deep question — who are you? If you have a mechanical hand, is that “you”?
Conversely, if you lose a hand, did you lose a part of you. Are you no longer a complete person? The complete you?
If an implant is put into your brain to access Google, does that effect who you view your self to be?
When books were invented, memory suffered. We no longer had to remember as much, because we can look things up.
Does that make our brains less human?
I bet memory has suffered with the rise of Google. Does this mean our consciousness has suffered?
When we created fire, we outsourced part of our digestion to this new invention. Did this make our stomachs less human?
With technology taking care of the basic tasks of our brain and body, it allows us to achieve things we couldn’t previously dream possible.
It allows us to learn and explore and to create past the current comfort zone. It allows us to find the happiness, freedom, and well-being we deserve.
“Over time, our emerging high-usage products will likely generate significant new revenue streams for Google as well as for our partners, just as search does today.“
This is it. This is why Larry Page has re-oriented Google into Alphabet.
Don’t waste your most productive energies solving a problem that now only has incremental improvements.
Re-focus the best energies on solving harder and harder problems.
Always keeping the value of “how can I help a billion people” will keep Google from becoming a Borders bookstore (which went out of business after outsourcing all of their sales to Amazon).
How does this apply to the personal?
Instead of being a cog in the machine for some corporation, come up with ways to automate greater abundance.
Always understand that coming up with multiple ways to help people is ultimately the way to create the biggest impact.
Impact then creates health, friendship, competence, abundance, and freedom.
Oh my god, this answer is too long. And believe it or not, I cut it in half.
If I can just wake up every day and remind myself of these quotes by Larry Page I know I will have a better life.
But this is also why he created Alphabet and put Google underneath it.
To save the world. To save me.
More From James
Latest Podcast: Ep 125: Rich Roll & Julie Piatt — Quit The NonsenseIs it possible to transform your life on the eve of your 40th birthday, and experience meaning, vitality, and purpose like you’ve never before imagined?
Latest Ask Altucher: Ep 332: Ask MollieJames delves into the mind of his 13-year-old daughter Mollie today.
Recommended Article: I Want To Be Like Google When I Grow UpDear Google, I sort of want to have sex with you. Or I want you to be my father. Or my best friend. I don’t know, I feel so nervous writing this letter.
For some reason, I've turned myself inside out and all my guts have spilled onto my blog. One day I'll run out of stuff but not yet.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Last week I was on my way to visit Medium’s headquarters in San Francisco to discuss a project that I’m working on, mainly focused around police brutality. Funnily enough (or not so), I ended up being over an hour late, because this happened.
I recorded the incident August 4th 2015 during the lunch hour. It involves a Black man who was taken down by police in the mid-Market area of San Francisco, between 7th and 8th streets. Though the takedown didn’t occur directly outside of the Twitter building on 9th street, I began to see outlines of the incident unfold from there; a limping Black figure, wearing black, increasingly cornered by a wall of blue. By the time I had crossed 8th street, I was pulling out my phone as fast as I could.
Witnesses said there had been a call about somebody waving sticks around. No one, at least no one that I stayed long enough after the filming, could say for sure where the call came from. One woman said that she heard someone say that one of the deli managers called. By the time I arrived where Joe Bland was (as we’ll call him), several officers had arrived on the scene, and forced this man to the ground, which is where this footage begins. And they held him down, much of the time half-naked, for at least half an hour on one of San Francisco’s busiest streets.
The sticks? They were his crutches. You can hear people in the background around say so much. From my vantage point on the shore of 8th street, I could see the man reluctantly hand over his crutches. The man, it turned out, only had one leg; the other was a prosthetic. It is often twisted and backwards in the video. And this was the crux of the heightened tension between the police and Joe Bland; they wanted his crutches and he did not want to give them away. “What are you doing this for?” he asked so many times. “These are my crutches. I use these to walk.” He repeats this throughout the footage. An officer can be seen at the 5 second time-mark stomping on the man’s prosthetic leg. In further efforts to subdue a man already on the ground with four people on top of him, they stood on his leg, held it, and twisted it around even after they had cuffed him and pinned him to the piss-stained concrete.
Even when restrained and clearly unable to walk, several officers continued to hold him down to the ground.
This version of the video is 11 minutes long (the incident actually went on way longer and I have roughly 30 minutes of footage) but here’s a brief summary of what you can see.
5 seconds in, you can see a cop literally stomp this man’s real leg and prosthetic leg.
At 10 seconds, the man-handling of his head begins.
At 22 seconds the man says, “What the fuck is you doing this to me?”
Around 1:35, the “Blue Wall” begins to form to block my filming.
Around 3:11, you can see that the man is partially nude, his ass is exposed. You can also hear me responding to the things that officers are saying to me, even if you can’t really hear them. Among the things they said: “You don’t live here,” “What do you do?” and “Oh, you’re a journalist, right, for who?”
Around 3:55, you can’t hear him, but the man on the ground says, “they’re going to shoot me” and then you can clearly hear someone behind me say, “They ain’t gonna shoot you man, that’s why we have these cameras out here.”
4:00 the wall begins to deepen and you can also see his nude backside completely exposed.
Around 6:00 he begins saying how much it hurts — “this shit hurts” and at 6:44, he says, “ That shit hurts…I have a fucking sore, an infection, on my leg.”
Around 7:00 the man begins asking, “What the fuck is wrong with you, is this what you do? [inaudible? something “treat me”?] Is this respectable? When I say ‘no’, is this what you do to me?”
At 7:25 he’s explaining to them, as he has before — and other people in the background have also corroborated — that he was walking with the sticks that were confiscated from him.
It goes on.
This isn’t a video of a man getting killed. Some might watch this and think in that general, indemnifying way, that this video is an exceptional case of an isolated case of poor policing. I’d have to disagree — and not respectfully — with you.
These incidents are so quotidian, so mundane, that they do not merit a mention in even passing on the local news. Which is to say, this is everyday harassment. Which is to say, that we’ve normalized and habitualized the kind of policing in San Francisco and the rest of America that brutalizes the most vulnerable people, which strips them of their human dignity, the agency to their bodies — to walk with crutches when physically disabled, to have this body unviolated — when in actuality, they are whom the police are especially supposed to be protecting.
In the book Between The World and Me, Ta-Nehisi Coates writes, “In America, it is traditional to destroy the Black body — it is heritage.” This is a literal and physical example of what he means by this. To say that this footage is exceptional or special is to be blind to Eric Garner’s death tape, to Walter Scott’s murder on video, it is to agree that John Crawford did not have the right to walk around Walmart with a toy gun in an open carry state. Yes, it’s racial profiling. Yes, it’s racism. Yes, it’s inequality. This is an American heritage.
But before you think that this is not San Francisco’s heritage, it would be better to first ask the Joe Blands, those that you may step over on any given day because you are busy, the BART is packed and they smell violently, what they think San Francisco’s heritage is, as it pertains to the police. Before you think that this is not San Francisco’s heritage, it is better to wonder why Black people, 7% of San Francisco’s population, are 7 times more likely to be arrested than White people. If you must believe that this video and the flood of others like it are exceptional instances of isolated brutality, then let us too believe that the stomping of vulnerable Black bodies and Black (prosthetic) limbs with pulverizing intent are what one means when they say, American exceptionalism.
I don’t know who Joe Bland is. I and others tried to get his name, but we could not make it out very well. Long after my meeting at Medium, watching the video by frames and discussing this with Bobbie Johnson about what to do next (who did a tremendous job in helping this come together and edit this), I was still at a loss for exactly what he’d done. But I do know that the police didn’t even put him under arrest: SFFD medics strapped him, against his will, to a stretcher and took him to hospital, for no apparent reason. I do know that he was humiliated, crying and deeply upset, but that and being physically handicapped are not enough reasons to be sent to the hospital. I do know that 14 officers to take down a presumably homeless man with one leg seems like a waste of resources and unreasonable.
The San Francisco Police Department is not new to controversy or to this American heritage. This year it’s been embroiled in a racist texting scandal, with officers caught sending messages calling African-Americans “monkeys” and encouraging the killing of “half breeds.” Earlier this year several officers and former officers were sentenced to jail for drug dealing, and pocketing money found during drug raids — some of which were unconstitutional. Just last week it came to light that the department has requested a mine-resistant armored vehicle, and recently the department was also subject to an investigation into faulty crime lab evidence —with as many as 1,400 criminal cases in the spotlight. A 2014 KQED review of police-involved shootings between 2005 and 2013 found that 58% of the people killed by the San Francisco Police Department were mentally ill. In an interview with the City Democratic Club in 2014, San Francisco’s chief of police, Greg Suhr, reported that his men are becoming “more and more charming.”
Speaking of which, Greg Suhr earns $320,000 per year — more than any other police chief in America. He also makes more than the mayor of San Francisco and the governor of California — $285,000 and $174,000 respectively.
This happened in the heart of one of America’s most affluent cities, literally outside the headquarters of Twitter. One block away are the headquarters of Uber, which is on pace to be the fastest-growing company in history. There are dozens of technology companies and buzzy internet media businesses along this stretch of Market Street, worth many, many billions of dollars. And not to my knowledge, did any of their employees or representatives come out to look at what the police were doing. And if they did, none of them have since publicly wondered what and how to use the powers of innovation, access and capital to change the narrative of police brutality in San Francisco and America. Perhaps they did not know that Joe Bland had been brutalized. Perhaps they were looking from their lofts and skyscrapers, on their way to the coffee machines or the in-house catered lunch and did see, but they too have normalized this mundane, quotidian and brutal American heritage. Whatever the internal struggles were, no one came.
And what could they do? If you’re sitting in your office in the Tenderloin, or mid-Market, or downtown San Francisco, what can you really do?
You are not powerless. You are rich and empowered, despite how you feel after paying rent and the IRS. You have a voice, a vote, a say in how San Francisco polices itself, in how it treats people. Greg Suhr and his officers work for you, not the other way around. As such, the police act on the democratic will of the people and if the current policing does not fit your will, you can change that.
So here are three things you can do.
So. The Haiti-ians need to come to America.
The story you’ve been missing.
By JON WESTENBERG
You could make something right now. If you wanted to stop reading, grab a sheet of butcher’s paper and brainstorm ideas, you could probably come up with half a dozen ideas for apps, books or products. Ideas aren’t the hard part, after all — just ask Tom Haverford.
You could build a Wordpress site and start harassing your friends to test the concept. You could start writing op-ed pieces on Medium and put “Founder” or “Author” in your Twitter bio within 48 hours. You could throw up a landing page, post the first chapter of a book and start pushing it on Product Hunt.
Where things get tough is when you’re trying to make something that people genuinely give a shit about. You don’t want your dream to die in the chamber, because nobody read it, watched it, used it or listened to it. The deafening silence surrounding your work can crush your soul.

If you want to make something that people really care about, that they actually give a hot shit about, you have to care about it yourself. Because if you don’t, then try as you might, it’ll come out in the final product.
The reason for this?
The only way you’ll be able to consistently work, when you don’t want to work, consistently try when you don’t want to try, is by deeply and honestly caring about your work.

The best writing advice I have ever heard was to write specifically for someone I know. It’s a genius idea. Every time I go to create something, or build something I think about who I know that would benefit from what I’m doing.
If you have something that you care enough about to make, you have to ask the next question — who are you making it for? What information do they need? What turn of phrase would stop them in their tracks? What is their single pain point that the product could solve, or their secret story that your novel would be able to touch and cultivate into a real emotional response?


You need to ask yourself whether you have the courage, the strength, the motivation and the passion to make what you want to make. And I mean really ask yourself, because when you first come up with an idea you can get so caught up in it that you can’t see anything else.
When that feeling starts to die down, or you get used to it, you can realise that you don’t have the real raw power to be able to finish and follow through. That’s not a bad thing; there is nothing wrong with recognising that a project isn’t right for you. Maybe there’s another project that is.
It’s not enough just to care about what you’re making — it has to feel right.

Have you ever watched one of those reality TV singing competitions? You’ve probably seen a hundred young people, eyes shining, clutching microphones and talking about their dreams. They’ll explain that ever since they were kids, they wanted to be singers.
They hardly ever say they wanted to sing. When it comes down to it, half the time it’s because actually singing isn’t the end goal. They want the trappings and lifestyle and the breaks of being a singer.
The same is true for anything you could make. Do you want to make X, or do you want to be the person who made X? Because if you don’t care about the act of making something, and if you don’t want to get out there every day and try to make something, you might as well quit.

If you want to write a book that can break someone’s heart — work hard.
If you want to start a business that changes the world — work hard.
If you want to draw a comic book that expresses everything you are, and dream about — work hard.


Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

Last Saturday, I read the 6,000-word New York Times piece, “Inside Amazon,” in the car on my way to the beach. I sat quietly in the front seat, glued to my phone while my husband flapped his hand gesturing for help with Google maps. My two-year-old danced to the sounds of Raffi in the back. When we got to the beach, we set up our spot, complete with dinosaur sand toys. My husband and daughter made a beeline for the water. I put on my Coolibar SPF 50 jacket to cover my skin from the sun. Then I sat down in my chair and wept.
Until July of 2014, I worked for Amazon. As a relatively successful young book editor, I’d been hired by the company in 2011 to help launch its New York City-based book publishing outpost created to commission original content by name writers. The media landscape was continuing to evolve; everyone was in everyone else’s lane. It was a big opportunity, one many people inside the publishing industry told me privately I would be crazy not to take. I was drawn to Amazon’s spirit of innovation, its agility, and its culture of excellence. I was about to start Columbia’s Executive MBA program when the offer came in. Why not, as the saying goes, “earn to learn,” I thought. I took the job.
I was dazzled by the people I met in different pockets of the company those first few months. They were all smart. They were all lightning-fast. And, I quickly noted, when it came to leadership positions, they were almost all men. “So, who’s our Sheryl Sandberg?” I asked a VP. He cited General Counsel Michelle Wilson, the sole woman on Jeff Bezos’s executive team. The next year, in 2012, Wilson left the company to take maternity leave. She never returned.
In 2013, during my second year at Amazon, I had a baby of my own. Six weeks after my daughter was born, I was diagnosed with cancer. I was given detailed instructions by my oncologist’s staff on how to “pump and dump” my breast milk for 24 hours to prevent my daughter from ingesting radioactive matter. There I was, soothing my infant, unsure of whether or not I would be around to see her first birthday.
After my surgery, while I was still on maternity leave, I received a form letter saying that the health insurance provided by my employer had been terminated. Dozens of panicked emails and phone calls later, the whole thing was, I was told, a glitch in the system. After a week of back and forth, I was offered COBRA coverage, by which point I had already switched to my husband’s insurance, where I remained for the duration of my care. I chalked it up to a horrendous administrative error but remain disappointed that a company of Amazon’s size didn’t have better mechanisms in place to prevent something like that from happening during an employee’s maternity leave.
After a five-month leave, I was nervous and excited to return to work, and I showed up that first day back with a big smile and a phone full of baby pictures to share. I figured I’d catch up with folks and get a high-level update on how the business was doing, since the strategy had evolved from the time I was hired. Here’s what happened instead: I was taken to lunch by a woman I barely knew. Over Cobb salad she calmly explained that all but one of my direct reports — the people I had hired — were now reporting to her. In the months that followed, I was placed on a dubious performance improvement plan, or PIP, a signal at Amazon that your employment is at risk. Not long after that I resigned.
The truth is, I’ve moved on. I’m healthy. I have a great job doing work I love. There’s no question Amazon is an incredible company. I met some of the strongest, most brilliant women of my career there. Unfortunately, many of those women have left. And the voices commenting on the New York Times piece so far have been predominantly male leaders of male-dominated teams.
Jeff: You asked for direct feedback. Women power your retail engine. They buy diapers. They buy books. They buy socks for their husbands on Prime. On behalf of all the people who want to speak up but can’t: Please, make Amazon a more hospitable place for women and parents. Reevaluate your parental leave policies. You can’t claim to be a data-driven company and not release more specific numbers on how many women and people of color apply, get hired and promoted, and stay on as employees. In the absence of meaningful public data — especially retention data — all we have are stories. This is mine.
Julia Cheiffetz is an Executive Editor at HarperCollins Publishers. She is on the Board of the Lower Eastside Girls Club.
The Fuckboy, in his current form, aims for the night, aims for the break, goals to ghost. The Softboy strings you along under loftier auspices. He is Nice yet Complicated; this isn’t just a hookup. It’s a series of such.
The Softboy did not talk to you at the party, but he’s adding you on Facebook while you’re on the train home. Soon, he wants to know if you’d “like to get drinks.”
“Or something.”
He discusses his ex-girlfriend within the first thirty minutes of the date. He talks about her in a sad, wistful way rather than a snarky, resentful way. The older Softboy will say, “Oh well, it’s in the past.” The younger Softboy will say, “So it goes.”
The Softboy may be named Tom. Or Phillip.
The Softboy wears a plain t-shirt or sweater and orders cheap beer backed with bottom-shelf whiskey. He is neither Bro nor Nerd. He is sensitive yet amusingly crass. He doesn’t want you to know he has feelings. He wants you to know that he has feelings and he is completely okay with that.
The Fuckboy is perplexed that you were upset when he forgot to text you for three days then sent “what are you up to” at last call. The Softboy knows this behavior is selfish and cruel, though his desire to get laid can trump this. He feels shame. He does it again.
He wants to know if you’re mad at him. He already knows.
The Softboy doesn’t want to talk to you about The Wire. He concedes that it is “objectively good television” yet “ultimately problematic” and “undeserving of its lionization.” Obviously, he is an Ally.
He has some art to show you.
The Softboy does not necessarily have a soft body. In fact he is often wiry and angular.
However: the heavier the Softboy, the thicker the beard.
He is emotionally intelligent but does nothing with this knowledge. He is artistic. He is aware. He is still a dick.
The Softboy sends you songs via Gchat while you’re at work.
He hasn’t texted you back for a reason; he was not blowing you off. He’s had a Weird Day. Or maybe he’s Trying To Figure Some Shit Out. Sometimes, he finds pride in declaring that he Just Needs A Night To Himself.
The Softboy is an Underdog. He has a hurricane sulk.
He resurfaces seconds before the final ember extinguishes.
The Softboy wields guilt like a floral knife.
Writer | California Son | alan-hanson.com

I’m a professional YouTube creator. Some people think that this is some kind of joke but I have 30 employees. All of them work in the online video industry, about half of them work directly on producing videos for our educational YouTube channels. We’re a small, profitable business.
Facebook is an interesting, emerging platform for us. Reaching an audience is valuable, even if there’s no way to turn that value into money. So I’m excited about the potential future of Facebook as a video platform.
But there are a few things that make me wary, not of their ability to grow my business, but of whether they give a shit about creators, which is actually pretty important to me. Let’s go through them one by one.
If I embed a YouTube video or Vine on Facebook, only a tiny fraction of my audience will actually see it. But if I post the same video natively on Facebook, suddenly it’s in everyone’s feed everywhere! This data is pretty easy to come by for us, and Facebook is happy to admit the strategy. A SciShow YouTube video embedded on Facebook will reach between 20,000 and 50,000 people and be viewed by hundreds of people. The same video uploaded natively will get a reach of between 60,000 and 150,000 and be “viewed” by tens of thousands (more on what those “views” actually mean later).
Sonja Foust of Duke University actually took the time to crunch some real numbers on this, and she was kind enough to allow me to share them with you:
So Facebook is pushing Facebook video. I guess that’s their prerogative (unless someone decides there’s an anti-trust argument to be made.) But as a creator, it seems like an abuse of their power.

In our analytics-obsessed world, it’s tempting to first ask how to measure whether something is a view, but if we take a step back and just ask what a “view” is, the answer becomes clearer. What is a view? It’s when someone watches the video. And Facebook counts views significantly before people could be said to be watching the video.
Facebook counts the “view” at the three second mark (whether or not the viewer has even turned on the sound) in the midst of a precipitous decline in retention. At that moment, 90% of people scrolling the page are still ‘watching’ this silent animated GIF. But by 30 seconds, when viewership actually could be claimed, only 20% are watching. 90% of people are being counted, but only 20% of people are actually “viewing” the video.
YouTube, on the other hand, counts views in a logical way…the view is counted at the point at which people seem to actually be engaging with the video and not just immediately clicking away. This is usually around 30 seconds, but of course is different for videos of different lengths.
This might seem a little like this is a victimless crime, but it fundamentally devalues the #1 metric of online video. The view is the thing that everyone talks about and it’s the thing creators sell to advertisers in order to make a living. Applying that word to something far less valuable is going to be extremely disruptive to creators. Ad agencies and brands are confused enough without Facebook muddying the waters by calling something a view when it is in no way a measure of viewership.
When Facebook says it has roughly the same number of views as YouTube, what they really mean is that they have roughly 1/5th of YouTube’s views, since they’re intentionally and blatantly over-counting to the detriment of everyone except them.

According to a recent report from Ogilvy and Tubular Labs, of the 1000 most popular Facebook videos of Q1 2015, 725 were stolen re-uploads. Just these 725 “freebooted” videos were responsible for around 17 BILLION views last quarter. This is not insignificant, it’s the vast majority of Facebook’s high volume traffic. And no wonder, when embedding a YouTube video on your company’s Facebook page is a sure way to see it die a sudden death, we shouldn’t be surprised when they rip it off YouTube and upload it natively. Facebook’s algorithms encourage this theft.
What is Facebook doing about it?
They’ll take the video down a couple days after you let them know. Y’know, once it’s received 99.9% of the views it will ever receive.
Creators have been yelling (apparently into a void) about this for over a year now. Fullscreen CEO George Strompolos shared his thoughts on Twitter last month:
And then he was joined by the Fine Brothers, who run one of the largest channels on YouTube
Destin Sandlin, who runs the “Smarter Every Day” channel released a video on the topic after a video of his was ripped and re-uploaded by a subsidiary of Bauer Media Group and received 17 million views on their Facebook page.
But most creators have responded, thus far, the same way as me. By shrugging our shoulders and saying “What am I gonna do about it…it’s Facebook, they’re massive.”
But that’s exactly what makes it so awful.
It’s no secret that YouTube was built, in part, on copyright infringement. Among the user generated content that drove traffic to YouTube in 2006 and 2007, there were plenty of Family Guy and Daily Show clips. But YouTube was a tiny start-up flying under the radar. As soon as it got big (and got bought) Google fixed this problem with “Content ID,” a system that analyzes every single video uploaded to YouTube and checks it against a massive database of known owned content.
It’s a little inexcusable that Facebook, a company with a market cap of $260 BILLION, launched their video platform with no system to protect independent rights holders. It wouldn’t be surprising if Facebook was working on a solution now which they can roll out conveniently after having made their initial claims at being the biggest, most important thing in video.
But even if they do have a system, it won’t function as well as Content ID. Content ID works so well largely because YouTube is good at monetizing content. So, instead of taking a video down, a copyright holder can claim the video and receive revenue from it. Content ID has claimed millions of videos and is responsible for over a billion dollars in revenue so copyright holders love it. But without a good system of monetization, Facebook can only remove videos, not send big checks to the owners of stolen content. For the copyright holder, interfacing with a profitless system is just a pain in the ass with no upside.
What to do? Well, the lack of searchability on Facebook makes it impossible for creators to discover when their content is being freebooted, so if you see suspect content, please reach out to the creator so they can take action. If you have any legal or technical solutions you think might work, please post those as responses to this. And above all, just know that this is an issue and share what you can with who you can. Facebook won’t hold itself accountable, but maybe they will if we make them.
Facebook is big enough that it shouldn’t need to resort to these tactics to build its video presence. It makes them look weak to be so excited about skyrocketing numbers if those numbers are based on cheating, lies, and theft.
Hank Green makes YouTube videos for a living on channels like SciShow, Crash Course, and Vlogbrothers. He also runs a merchandise company for internet creators (DFTBA Records), a conference for internet creators (VidCon), and his crowd-funding platform for internet creators (Subbable) was recently acquired by Patreon.
Internetainerpreneur
I think spatially, and so do you. Can you scratch your left ear without looking? Pick a booger out of your nose, without poking your brain? Remember where you left your keys? Can you type, without looking at your keyboard? Know which pocket your phone is in? Which way is up? Do you know where the bathroom is? Of course you do! We imagine multi-dimensional models in our minds, to help understand the complex world around us. We can also leverage this powerful way of thinking, to process more abstract information.
I believe the best software is an extension of the human brain. It lets us think naturally, and conforms to us, not the other way around. Translation of information should be the computer’s job, not ours. It’s what we built these digital slaves for. A great Spatial Interface meets our expectations of a physical model. Designed for human beings, it supports a mind, living in the dimensions of space and time. They are Interfaces that are sensible about where things lay. Like a well designed building, they’re easy to traverse through. One space flows into the other, without surprise.
To design a Spatial Interface, you need to think inside and outside the bounds of the screen. Think about the physicality of the objects in your interface. Where did they come from? Where will they go? How do they behave in respect to Kinetic influence? Do certain objects inherit physical properties of others? Where are you, relative to everything else?
These are hard questions to answer with words. Seems like a no-brainer, but I find it most effective to solve visual problems with pictures.
Diagrammatic Reasoning
When designing spatially, it helps to imagine an interface as a physical model, which can be manipulated, and travelled through. Rather than placing detached comps next to each other one-dimensionally, try thinking upper-dimensionally.
Here’s a breakdown of the Contextual Zooming paradigm that was key to creating Keezy Drummer.
You can visualize the relationships between dimensions as extrusions of lower dimensions. Each dimension creates a significantly more complex model to visualize.



We can design with time, by thinking about kinetic, Transitional Interfaces. Both Spatial & Temporal clues lead the eye around physical models.






Motion implies space. Movement re-enforces the physical characteristics of the spaces on and off the screen. Objects constrained using sensible, physical rules, help establish a clear model.


We’ve all seen this classic, list item deletion pattern. Swipe the cell, and it reveals a button behind it. Tap the icon, and the entire cell collapses.

What happens if we change the way the list item departs the screen?

If we cushion / ease the item exiting the screen, we suggest where it might stop. In this case, it stops a little short off screen. We might want to do this to imply a holding area, which could feed items back into the list. Maybe we could allow the user to swipe the viewport to the right hand side of the screen, revealing displaced list items.

If the item keeps accelerating, where does it end up? Out of reach? Are we banishing it into the void of outer space?

If the list item rotates and displaces along the x & y axis freely, does it come to rest off the grid? Is there gravity? Maybe it lands in a pile.



Z-translation implies depth.
The list item could flip over. It might fold in on itself like an accordion. Maybe it scrunches. The fill color could drain out of the cell like a liquid. I could go on with visual examples forever, but by now, I think you get the picture; one can encode quite a lot of meaning using motion and space.



Pretty conceptual, but Scorekeeper does a great job of creating focus. It isolates modes, rather than presenting the user with a bloated buffet of options to dig through. Complexity is hidden in secondary, and tertiary sub-interfaces. Each sub-interface is as simple as its parent.


Tinder famously employs a card paradigm. There’s an endless stack of cards which make use of z-depth. Toss a card from the stack to the right, for a babe you’re into, or throw them to the left to pass. Similarly, if you tap the heart or ‘x’ button, it automatically tosses the card to the respective side of screen, re-enforcing the function of space.
It’s a physical, kinetic model that’s familiar.


Secondary screens are placed along a horizontal continuum, which is reflected in the motion of the navigation, cascading to the content below. A great example of motion being leveraged to imply space.
I’m unsure if it’s intentional, but the interface for messaging your ‘matches’ happens to exist on the right hand side, within the same area you toss your Tinder crush card.



Tumblr’s model is simple. There’s a few contexts, connected with a tab bar. It’s easy to visualize if you imagine the interface from the perspective of a camera. A persistent toolbar follows us, as if attached to the camera we’re looking through. Though you don’t see explicit motion along the x-axis as we change contexts (as Tinder employs), there’s still a implicit feeling of space on either side of the columns.
None of this is groundbreaking.
What’s interesting is the use of the compose modal, triggered by touching the blue pencil icon. No matter where it’s touched, you are not transported to a new part of the interface, rather — you’re presented with a temporary offering, in a focused view. You have incredibly simple options: Either select a post type, or dismiss the menu. The view presents itself over the top of the content, as if it were a layer existing on a z-plane. Dismiss the view, and it returns to where it was summoned. Choose to make an action on it, you continue to move along the y-axis with the icons, implying a continuum. It’s like a conveyor belt on a production line.
My one gripe in Tumblr’s process, is that the metadata composer is presented with the insertion of a classic, master-detail view. If I were to push the interface further, I’d continue to present the next screen with y-axis motion, rather than introducing the extra x-dimension. This reduces the cognitive load required to imagine the spatial model.


A classic lightbox effect, but with a little more. Tap the photo, and it moves into the ‘foreground’. The background feed dims and recedes. Flick the photo away, and it returns back to its initial position, while the original container view zooms back into focus. It’s solid.



There’s a lot to learn, by deconstructing these expensive Frankensteins.

One of the most spatially confusing, while popular pieces of consumer software. To describe how Spotify’s interface makes use of space, would be to describe a rat’s nest of wires. I challenge you to effectively sketch it on a piece of paper.

A user of Spotify is exposed to obscure carousels, buried inside modals, stuffed inside list views, crammed into drawers, contained by drop-downs, tucked behind gestures. Each list item in the hamburger menu forces the user through a wild goose chase in order to perform a simple action. It’s like you have to play a choose your own adventure story to get anything done.

While it may seem baffling that a team of talented engineers & designers could produce such a monstrosity, it’s unsurprising when you take a look at the software development values of Spotify. A holistic approach to creating software is thrown out the window, in favor of ungrounded company memes.

…but to be fair, the rest of the competition in the music space doesn’t seem to get it either. Apple Music & Rdio’s interfaces are equally insufferable. There’s little, to no thought given to Space.

Praised for its use of spring physics, and wild animations, it seems remarkable on the surface. The Paper team made some cool tech, and even open sourced it. It’s fun to fling around. It ends there. Paper is a children’s interactive playbook for an iPad, rebranded and then crammed into a tiny iPhone. Ok, well it’s Push Pop Press shoehorned into Facebook.

There’s momentum scroll areas for days. Springs on springs on springs on springs. Cards that unfold like a shiny newspaper? You can pinch everything. The loudest hamburger menu in the world. Everything is simulated and moves for the sake of flair. It’s unnecessary kinetic toil. It’s fatiguing to traverse the amount of physical space described in the interface, let alone keep a model in the mind to remember where you are.
It’s a great example of going too far.

This one’s so obvious, I’m presenting it without any further comment.

How do we avoid the Rat’s Nest? We need to zoom out, and quite literally. Like I mentioned earlier, it helps immensely to think in terms of diagrammatic reasoning. Simple directions on the map result in a less chaotic journey through space.
Some tips:




I hope what I’ve penned down has encouraged you to think more Spatially. Go play some video games, and study the interfaces. Go outside. Observe the physicality of reality and your expectations of it. It’s in the DNA of the creations I’m inspired by, and the type of work I strive to produce.
I’ll be talking about this topic at Push Conference in Munich later this year. Feel free to email me: medium@pasquale.cool, or write to me on twitter @pasql
✌🏻

Special thanks:
Jake Lodwick, Eric Skogen, Mark Stultz, & Sebastiaan de With
Creative Director & Co-Founder of Keezy. http://pasquale.cool/
From the boys at Elepath Inc. http://elepath.com

Edit: At Facebook’s request I have again deactivated the *official* version of the extension. Furthermore, Facebook has deactivated location sharing from the desktop webpage so the extension will not work.
When I came to college Facebook Messenger became an integral part of my digital life. I quickly found that it was the easiest way to keep in touch with old high school friends, contact people I had just met, organize impromptu poker games with people I hardly knew, and everything in between. However, I didn't realize how much data about me Messenger was revealing to the people I chatted with until last week when I began tinkering with my message history.
As you may know, when you send a message from the Messenger app there is an option to send your location with it. What I realized was that almost every other message in my chats had a location attached to it, so I decided to have some fun with this data. I wrote a Chrome extension for the Facebook Messenger page (https://www.facebook.com/messages/) that scrapes all this location data and plots it on a map. You can get this extension here and play around with it on your message data.

You may not believe that there are enough of these location tagged messages to provide truly invasive data on any one person, since they must be on mobile, with GPS on, and choose to share their location for it to be sent… right?
What you should keep in mind is that the mobile app for Facebook Messenger defaults to sending a location with all messages.
Go ahead and see how many messages in your chats have locations attached. I’m guessing it’s a lot of them. And if this isn't already starting to get a bit weird, the first thing I noticed when I started to write my code was that the latitude and longitude coordinates of the message locations have more than 5 decimal places of precision, making it possible to pinpoint the sender’s location to less than a meter.
Once the extension was written I naturally started seeing what kind of things I could discover about my Facebook friends.
I am in a pretty active group chat with some of my brother’s friends (who I am friends with on Facebook but don’t know too well). They are all fairly active on the chat, posting once a day or more.
Let’s pick on the one who goes to Stanford. By simply looking at the cluster of messages sent late at night you can tell exactly where his dorm is, and in fact approximately where his room is located in that dorm.
Furthermore, by gathering a couple weeks’ worth of chat data on the map and looking at the location clusters you can even figure out his weekly schedule. With this you can predict exactly which building he would be in at a given time.
In fact I found that I could infer a schedule for almost everyone in this chat as well as the other active chats I am in.
I found that I could even do this for people who I am not Facebook friends with. I am currently in a large active chat to organize poker games with some fellow students, many of whom I am not Facebook friends with. However, I can still track their locations extremely accurately from the messages they send the group.
You can now see the fun (and slightly creepy) things this data allows you to do. But wait there's more! One day when I was chatting frequently with a friend of mine (@tomasreimers) the map allowed me to track his hour by hour locations. At the end of that day the location history on the map closely matched the location history collected by his phone.
Additionally, this map aggregates the location data from all the messages that I send. For the days I was frequently on messenger (posting to different conversations every hour or so), my location history on this map lined up very closely with my phone’s location history.
This means that if a few people who I am chatting with separately collude and send each other the locations I share with them, they would be able to track me very accurately without me ever knowing.
If you want to map your friends’ locations to see for yourself how fun (and creepy) this data is you can download the extension for Chrome here. The code is also available and open source on Github.
For those of you already wanting out here is a great guide on how to ensure you don’t send your locations from the Messenger app.

Let me reiterate that I still find Facebook Messenger extremely useful and use it religiously, albeit with location sharing now turned off. This may lead you to wonder if there really is a problem here, since there is always option to not share your exact coordinates with messages. However, everyone I have shown this extension to has been anywhere from surprised to appalled that this much of their very personal data is online for their friends (and even complete strangers) to access. So it is seems that there is an issue.
Let’s start at the root of the problem: why do so many people give up their location data so readily on Messenger?
The main problem is that every time you open your phone and send a single message it’s so easy to forget about your location data being attached to it. Furthermore, it seems so harmless to attach a location with a single message, but the problem is over time the information from these messages adds up.
Both of these issues in some way stem from the fact that locations are not only included by default, but also are rather subtly placed in the UI. The power of defaults on human behavior is well documented in psychology and suggests that few people will put in the effort to deviate from the default action of sharing. Furthermore, because there are no readily visible consequences to sharing your location, users are never incentivized to devote attention to what this default of sharing is actually revealing about them.
I decided to write this extension, because we are constantly being told how we are losing privacy with the increasing digitization of our lives, however the consequences never seem tangible. With this code you can see for yourself the potentially invasive usage of the information you share, and decide for yourself if this is something you should worry about.
Student at Harvard College in Computer Science and Mathematics. Find me at arankhanna.com
Open minded reading
The web is increasingly becoming a powerful resource that can easily help you learn something new everyday. These awesome sites are just what you need.

There is a good chance you’ll be able to put at least one of these learning tools to good use and come out as a better person than you were last year. These are some of the best websites that will make you smarter every day.
2. 99U (YouTube) — Actionable insights on productivity, organization, and leadership to help creative people push ideas forward.
3. Youtube EDU — The education videos that don’t have cute cats in boxes — but they do unlock knowledge.
4. WikiWand — A slick new interface for Wikipedia.
5. The long read (The Guardian) — In-depth reporting, essays and profiles.
6. TED — Great videos to open your mind on almost every topic.
7. iTunes U — Learning on the go, from some of the world’s top universities.
8. InsightfulQuestions (subreddit) — Intellectual discussions that are not necessarily genre-specific.
9. Cerego — Cerego helps you build personalized study plans based on your strengths and weaknesses to retain knowledge.
10. University of the People — Tuition-free online university that offers higher education in multiple course streams.
11. OpenSesame — Marketplace for online training, now with 22,000+ courses.
12. CreativeLive — Take free creative classes from the world’s top experts.
13. Coursera — Partnering with some of the top U.S. universities, Coursera offers massive open online courses for free.
14. University of reddit — the product of free intellectualism and is a haven for the sharing of knowledge.
15. Quora — You ask, the net discusses — with top experts and fascinating back and forth on everything.
16. Digital Photography School — Read through this goldmine of articles to improve your photography skills.
17. Umano -Explore the largest collection of audio articles powered by real people. Dropbox has acquired Umano. Brain Pickings is a great replacement for 17.
Brain Pickings — Insightful long form posts on life, art, science, design, history, philosophy, and more.
18. Peer 2 Peer University or P2PU, is an open educational project that helps you learn at your own pace.
19. MIT Open CourseWare is a catalog of free online courses and learning resources offered by MIT.
20. Gibbon — This is the ultimate playlist for learning.
21. Investopedia — Learn everything you need to know about the world of investing, markets, and personal finance.
22. Udacity offers interactive online classes and courses in higher education.
23. Mozilla Developer Network offers detailed documentation and learning resources for web developers.
24. Future learn — enjoy free online courses from top universities and specialist organisations.
25. Google Scholar — provides a search of scholarly literature across many disciplines and sources, including theses, books, abstracts and articles.
26. Brain Pump — A place to learn something new everyday.
27. Mental Floss — Test your knowledge with amazing and interesting facts, trivia, quizzes, and brain teaser games.
28. Learnist — Learn from expertly curated web, print and video content.
29. DataCamp — Online R tutorials and data science courses.
30. edX — Take online courses from the world’s best universities.
31. Highbrow — Get bite-sized daily courses to your inbox.
32. Coursmos — Take a micro-course anytime you want, on any device.
33. Platzi — Live streaming classes on design, marketing and code.

“What could be more important to a learner than proficiency in good thinking?” Peter Worley
The author is the founder at Alltopstartups (where he shares startup resources) and Postanly (a free weekly newsletter that delivers the best, most popular and long form posts from top publishers around the web). Follow him on Twitter @Alltopstartups.
Entrepreneur. Blogger. Author. Founder at Alltopstartups.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

Life is exhausting. No joke.
All we do is work. Or think of work. Or talk about work.
Work, work, work.
It wears on us after awhile. We get burned out. Some of us develop unhealthy addictions (like watching endless reruns of Friends). We even get sick.
Want to know what the best remedy I’ve found to battle burnout?
(One of my favorite artists has this tattooed on his arm.)
The reason we burn out isn’t because of this thing called ‘activity’.
Life is action. Movement.
Stillness is an illusion.
We see the proof in nature itself…
The glassy pond, under a microscope, is anything but still.
Even as we sleep, our hearts beat, our hair grows, and our brain zooms full-speed ahead.
Life never complains. It just goes and goes because that’s its nature.
The problem we have is alignment. Things go awry when we get out of alignment with what we’re doing. This is how things die.
Whether we’re just-not-that-into-it or we outright hate it, our intentions are somewhere else while our bodies, brains, and egos are trudging along with a slowly dying battery.
So we do things out of obligation. We feel coerced. Like we have no say in the matter.
We just go through the motions. There’s no soul behind it. No presence.
No wonder we’re burned out.
Want to turn the ship around?
Get into it.
Start doing as much as you can — even the smallest things like washing dishes, mowing the lawn, or doodling — with your full intent behind it. Like it’s the most mindful, enjoyable thing you’ve ever done.
Move through your day with purpose. With direction.
Soon, things will shift. You’ll start happening onto life so it can happen back. You’ll feel alive again (and will probably sleep better too).

Life is a ping-pong game. You’re serving. Until you move, it’s just gonna stand there and look at you.
You gonna bring the heat or not?
Heretic. Spiritual consigliere. Consciousness alignment specialist and sherpa. | About: http://bit.ly/1zgSK21 | Subscribe: http://bit.ly/1ULQlbK.
Short daily essays by Jonas Ellison about good, clean creative living and thoughts of a higher nature. | Subscribe via email: http://bit.ly/1ULQlbK.



Woah.
Cosmopolitan covers started out with women dressed conservatively. Then they started showing some skin. Then more skin. Finally, they started posing in sexy positions.
As women have earned more rights throughout the years, they’ve also earned the right to wear whatever they damn well please. Or maybe that just sells more magazines?


No bikini-clad teens here. It’s still pretty wholesome.
The Seventeen logo has stayed the same, but almost everything else about the design has changed. There was a time when the cover was delightfully simple. Then things just got more and more cluttered.
The magazine cover’s job is to sell the magazine — it has to stand out in a rack full of other magazines. So the design starts to get louder and louder.
When doing research for this article, I kept getting headaches whenever I looked at Seventeen covers for too long. Google image search “Seventeen Magazine” and you’ll see what I mean:
Ow. My eyes.


These are our new role models.
Ah, the Kardashians. Whether you love them, or love to hate them — there’s no disputing they’re wicked talented at monetizing their fame.
Vogue has had some gorgeous covers throughout the years. Like every other magazine, they’ve added more text on their covers to lure the readers in. But unlike Seventeen, they’ve done a good job of keeping the design classy and uncluttered.
For a more scientific look, check out Robots Reading Vogue, which compiled visual averages for all of the past covers of Vogue. (Thanks to Redditor othfilms for the find).


A walk down history, as seen through Time covers:
Time has done a great job branding its recognizable red border. The design has remained mostly consistent — except for a brief logo change in the 70's and 80's, which they quickly realized was a bad idea.
Time continues to feature America’s icons year after year — from presidents to pop stars. Who will be our icons in the next 100 years?

It surprised me that National Geographic’s covers were so text-heavy for most of its existence. This is a magazine that is perhaps best known for its beautiful full-bleed photography — yet they didn’t adopt this style until the 1960's. In contrast, magazines like Vogue and Cosmopolitan were were way ahead of the curve, featuring full-page illustrations as early as the 1900s.
Like Time, National Geographic has done an excellent job of branding its recognizable yellow border.


“Hey, we can sell more magazines with women in bikinis instead!”
— GQ’s marketing strategy
For a long time, every cover of GQ was pretty much the same. A white man in a suit. It’s a wonder it took them until 1990 to figure out that they might be able to sell more magazines by putting women on the cover instead.
GQ has gotten racy, sure — but also delightfully creative.
Damn, girl! This isn’t your average topless photoshoot.
GQ actually got in quite a bit of trouble for depicting Amy Schumer sexually with Star Wars characters. They didn’t get permission from Disney (who undoubtedly wouldn’t have granted it), and many Star Wars fans found it offensive. But Amy Schumer loved it, and said she would do it again.
Remarkably, The New Yorker hasn’t changed one bit.
The cover on the right is a special 90th anniversary issue, a clever recreation of the very first New Yorker cover on the left.
Compare the covers from decade to decade:
Pick out any cover at random, and it isn’t immediately obvious what time period it belongs to. With everything else that’s changed around us, The New Yorker has been remarkably consistent.
Their logo has endured 90 years. They continue to charm us with their hand-drawn illustrations. And unlike every other magazine, they haven’t been pressured into adding a bunch of text on the cover.
All magazines experiment with their design and learn what sells. And most other magazines — Cosmopolitan, Seventeen, Vogue, Time, GQ — have pretty much converged to the same design: a photo of a person, usually an attractive female, prominently featuring her face and body — with text headlines designed to get you to want to read what’s inside. This is the formula that sells their magazines.
Survival of the fittest, capitalism edition.
But not The New Yorker. It takes discipline to zig when everyone else is zagging.
You do you, New Yorker.


What 100 years of progress looks like:
What makes Caitlyn’s cover special is not just the subject matter, but the style as well. Let’s compare Caitlyn Jenner’s cover with every other cover in 2015:
The other covers are littered with mounds of text. Not this issue.
Call me Caitlyn. Just three words.
They didn’t need to sell the other stories. This issue was all about her. Vanity Fair nailed it.
You go, Caitlyn!


Together, these magazine covers reveal a peek into our history. Sure, we’ve gotten more sexualized. More superficial. We read less. We have shorter attention spans.
But we’ve also gotten more open-minded. At each step along the way, society has pushed the limits of what’s considered acceptable.
Not so long ago, black people couldn’t vote. Though they still face significant discrimination, they are also now idolized on magazine covers. As women have earned more rights over the years, they now take control of their sexuality. And Vanity Fair’s most iconic cover this year is a woman who used to identify as a man.
We’ve come a long way in 100 years.


Notice any trends we missed? Add your analysis in the comments.



Karen makes viral videos and explainer videos for startups. Follow her on Medium, Facebook or Instagram.
Jerry is product design consultant in San Francisco. Check out his portfolio.


Feel free to quote and embed the pictures on your publication. Please credit and link back: Karen X. Cheng and Jerry Gabra. Magazine covers are copyright by their respective publications. Comparison images created by Karen X. Cheng and Jerry Gabra. If you have questions, email karenxcheng (at) gmail (dot) com
Thanks to Orion Hombrebueno for research help. Thanks to Adam Lee, Oliver Emberton, Ketan Anjaria, Sam Brewczynski, Lynn Tao, Brooks Hassig and Rachman Blake for helpful feedback on drafts of this article.
I make viral videos and explainer videos for startups. http://karenx.com
By Hossein DerakhshanIllustrations by Tim McDonagh
Seven months ago, I sat down at the small table in the kitchen of my 1960s apartment, nestled on the top floor of a building in a vibrant central neighbourhood of Tehran, and I did something I had done thousands of times previously. I opened my laptop and posted to my new blog. This, though, was the first time in six years. And it nearly broke my heart.
A few weeks earlier, I’d been abruptly pardoned and freed from Evin prison in northern Tehran. I had been expecting to spend most of my life in those cells: In November 2008, I’d been sentenced to nearly 20 years in jail, mostly for things I’d written on my blog.
But the moment, when it came, was unexpected. I smoked a cigarette in the kitchen with one of my fellow inmates, and came back to the room I shared with a dozen other men. We were sharing a cup of tea when the voice of the floor announcer — another prisoner — filled all the rooms and corridors. In his flat voice, he announced in Persian: “Dear fellow inmates, the bird of luck has once again sat on one fellow inmate’s shoulders. Mr. Hossein Derakhshan, as of this moment, you are free.”
That evening was the first time that I went out of those doors as a free man. Everything felt new: The chill autumn breeze, the traffic noise from a nearby bridge, the smell, the colors of the city I had lived in for most of my life.
Around me, I noticed a very different Tehran from the one I’d been used to. An influx of new, shamelessly luxurious condos had replaced the charming little houses I was familiar with. New roads, new highways, hordes of invasive SUVs. Large billboards with advertisements for Swiss-made watches and Korean flat screen TVs. Women in colorful scarves and manteaus, men with dyed hair and beards, and hundreds of charming cafes with hip western music and female staff. They were the kinds of changes that creep up on people; the kind you only really notice once normal life gets taken away from you.
Two weeks later, I began writing again. Some friends agreed to let me start a blog as part of their arts magazine. I called it Ketabkhan — it means book-reader in Persian.
Six years was a long time to be in jail, but it’s an entire era online. Writing on the internet itself had not changed, but reading — or, at least, getting things read — had altered dramatically. I’d been told how essential social networks had become while I’d been gone, and so I knew one thing: If I wanted to lure people to see my writing, I had to use social media now.
So I tried to post a link to one of my stories on Facebook. Turns out Facebook didn’t care much. It ended up looking like a boring classified ad. No description. No image. Nothing. It got three likes. Three! That was it.
It became clear to me, right there, that things had changed. I was not equipped to play on this new turf — all my investment and effort had burned up. I was devastated.
Blogs were gold and bloggers were rock stars back in 2008 when I was arrested. At that point, and despite the fact the state was blocking access to my blog from inside Iran, I had an audience of around 20,000 people every day. Everybody I linked to would face a sudden and serious jump in traffic: I could empower or embarrass anyone I wanted.
People used to carefully read my posts and leave lots of relevant comments, and even many of those who strongly disagreed with me still came to read. Other blogs linked to mine to discuss what I was saying. I felt like a king.
The iPhone was a little over a year old by then, but smartphones were still mostly used to make phone calls and send short messages, handle emails, and surf the web. There were no real apps, certainly not how we think of them today. There was no Instagram, no SnapChat, no Viber, no WhatsApp.
Instead, there was the web, and on the web, there were blogs: the best place to find alternative thoughts, news and analysis. They were my life.
It had all started with 9/11. I was in Toronto, and my father had just arrived from Tehran for a visit. We were having breakfast when the second plane hit the World Trade Center. I was puzzled and confused and, looking for insights and explanations, I came across blogs. Once I read a few, I thought: This is it, I should start one, and encourage all Iranians to start blogging as well. So, using Notepad on Windows, I started experimenting. Soon I ended up writing on hoder.com, using Blogger’s publishing platform before Google bought it.
Then, on November 5, 2001, I published a step-to-step guide on how to start a blog. That sparked something that was later called a blogging revolution: Soon, hundreds and thousands of Iranians made it one of the top 5 nations by the number of blogs, and I was proud to have a role in this unprecedented democratization of writing.
Those days, I used to keep a list of all blogs in Persian and, for a while, I was the first person any new blogger in Iran would contact, so they could get on the list. That’s why they called me “the blogfather” in my mid-twenties — it was a silly nickname, but at least it hinted at how much I cared.
Every morning, from my small apartment in downtown Toronto, I opened my computer and took care of the new blogs, helping them gain exposure and audience. It was a diverse crowd — from exiled authors and journalists, female diarists, and technology experts, to local journalists, politicians, clerics, and war veterans — and I always encouraged even more. I invited more religious, and pro-Islamic Republic men and women, people who lived inside Iran, to join and start writing.
The breadth of what was available those days amazed us all. It was partly why I promoted blogging so seriously. I’d left Iran in late 2000 to experience living in the West, and was scared that I was missing all the rapidly emerging trends at home. But reading Iranian blogs in Toronto was the closest experience I could have to sitting in a shared taxi in Tehran and listening to collective conversations between the talkative driver and random passengers.
There’s a story in the Quran that I thought about a lot during my first eight months in solitary confinement. In it, a group of persecuted Christians find refuge in a cave. They, and a dog they have with them, fall into a deep sleep. They wake up under the impression that they’ve taken a nap: In fact, it’s 300 years later. One version of the story tells of how one of them goes out to buy food — and I can only imagine how hungry they must’ve been after 300 years — and discovers that his money is obsolete now, a museum item. That’s when he realizes how long they have actually been absent.
The hyperlink was my currency six years ago. Stemming from the idea of the hypertext, the hyperlink provided a diversity and decentralisation that the real world lacked. The hyperlink represented the open, interconnected spirit of the world wide web — a vision that started with its inventor, Tim Berners-Lee. The hyperlink was a way to abandon centralization — all the links, lines and hierarchies — and replace them with something more distributed, a system of nodes and networks.
Blogs gave form to that spirit of decentralization: They were windows into lives you’d rarely know much about; bridges that connected different lives to each other and thereby changed them. Blogs were cafes where people exchanged diverse ideas on any and every topic you could possibly be interested in. They were Tehran’s taxicabs writ large.
Since I got out of jail, though, I’ve realized how much the hyperlink has been devalued, almost made obsolete.
Nearly every social network now treats a link as just the same as it treats any other object — the same as a photo, or a piece of text — instead of seeing it as a way to make that text richer. You’re encouraged to post one single hyperlink and expose it to a quasi-democratic process of liking and plussing and hearting: Adding several links to a piece of text is usually not allowed. Hyperlinks are objectivized, isolated, stripped of their powers.
At the same time, these social networks tend to treat native text and pictures — things that are directly posted to them — with a lot more respect than those that reside on outside web pages. One photographer friend explained to me how the images he uploads directly to Facebook receive a large number of likes, which in turn means they appear more on other people’s news feeds. On the other hand, when he posts a link to the same picture somewhere outside Facebook — his now-dusty blog, for instance — the images are much less visible to Facebook itself, and therefore get far fewer likes. The cycle reinforces itself.
Some networks, like Twitter, treat hyperlinks a little better. Others, insecure social services, are far more paranoid. Instagram — owned by Facebook — doesn’t allow its audiences to leave whatsoever. You can put up a web address alongside your photos, but it won’t go anywhere. Lots of people start their daily online routine in these cul de sacs of social media, and their journeys end there. Many don’t even realize that they’re using the Internet’s infrastructure when they like an Instagram photograph or leave a comment on a friend’s Facebook video. It’s just an app.
But hyperlinks aren’t just the skeleton of the web: They are its eyes, a path to its soul. And a blind webpage, one without hyperlinks, can’t look or gaze at another webpage — and this has serious consequences for the dynamics of power on the web.
More or less, all theorists have thought of gaze in relation to power, and mostly in a negative sense: the gazer strips the gazed and turns her into a powerless object, devoid of intelligence or agency. But in the world of webpages, gaze functions differently: It is more empowering. When a powerful website — say Google or Facebook — gazes at, or links to, another webpage, it doesn’t just connect it — it brings it into existence; gives it life. Metaphorically, without this empowering gaze, your web page doesn’t breathe. No matter how many links you have placed in a webpage, unless somebody is looking at it, it is actually both dead and blind; and therefore incapable of transferring power to any outside web page.
On the other hand, the most powerful web pages are those that have many eyes upon them. Just like celebrities who draw a kind of power from the millions of human eyes gazing at them any given time, web pages can capture and distribute their power through hyperlinks.
But apps like Instagram are blind — or almost blind. Their gaze goes nowhere except inwards, reluctant to transfer any of their vast powers to others, leading them into quiet deaths. The consequence is that web pages outside social media are dying.
Even before I went to jail, though, the power of hyperlinks was being curbed. Its biggest enemy was a philosophy that combined two of the most dominant, and most overrated, values of our times: novelty and popularity, reflected by the real world dominance of young celebrities. That philosophy is the Stream.
The Stream now dominates the way people receive information on the web. Fewer users are directly checking dedicated webpages, instead getting fed by a never-ending flow of information that’s picked for them by complex –and secretive — algorithms.
The Stream means you don’t need to open so many websites any more. You don’t need numerous tabs. You don’t even need a web browser. You open Twitter or Facebook on your smartphone and dive deep in. The mountain has come to you. Algorithms have picked everything for you. According to what you or your friends have read or seen before, they predict what you might like to see. It feels great not to waste time in finding interesting things on so many websites.
But are we missing something here? What are we exchanging for efficiency?
In many apps, the votes we cast — the likes, the plusses, the stars, the hearts — are actually more related to cute avatars and celebrity status than to the substance of what’s posted. A most brilliant paragraph by some ordinary-looking person can be left outside the Stream, while the silly ramblings of a celebrity gain instant Internet presence.
And not only do the algorithms behind the Stream equate newness and popularity with importance, they also tend to show us more of what we’ve already liked. These services carefully scan our behaviour and delicately tailor our news feeds with posts, pictures and videos that they think we would most likely want to see.
Popularity is not wrong in and of itself, but it has its own perils. In a free-market economy, low-quality goods with the wrong prices are doomed to failure. Nobody gets upset when a quiet Brooklyn cafe with bad lattes and rude servers goes out of business. But opinions are not the same as material goods or services. They won’t disappear if they are unpopular or even bad. In fact, history has proven that most big ideas (and many bad ones) have been quite unpopular for a long time, and their marginal status has only strengthened them. Minority views are radicalized when they can’t be expressed and recognized.
Today the Stream is digital media’s dominant form of organizing information. It’s in every social network and mobile application. Since I gained my freedom, everywhere I turn I see the Stream. I guess it won’t be too long before we see news websites organize their entire content based on the same principles. The prominence of the Stream today doesn’t just make vast chunks of the Internet biased against quality — it also means a deep betrayal to the diversity that the world wide web had originally envisioned.
There’s no question to me that the diversity of themes and opinions is less online today than it was in the past. New, different, and challenging ideas get suppressed by today’s social networks because their ranking strategies prioritize the popular and habitual. (No wonder why Apple is hiring human editors for its news app.) But diversity is being reduced in other ways, and for other purposes.
Some of it is visual. Yes, it is true that all my posts on Twitter and Facebook look something similar to a personal blog: They are collected in reverse-chronological order, on a specific webpage, with direct web addresses to each post. But I have very little control over how it looks like; I can’t personalize it much. My page must follow a uniform look which the designers of the social network decide for me.
The centralization of information also worries me because it makes it easier for things to disappear. After my arrest, my hosting service closed my account, because I wasn’t able to pay its monthly fee. But at least I had a backup of all my posts in a database on my own web server. (Most blogging platforms used to enable you to transfer your posts and archives to your own web space, whereas now most platforms don’t let you so.) Even if I didn’t, the Internet archive might keep a copy. But what if my account on Facebook or Twitter is shut down for any reason? Those services themselves may not die any time soon, but it would be not too difficult to imagine a day many American services shut down accounts of anyone who is from Iran, as a result of the current regime of sanctions. If that happened, I might be able to download my posts in some of them, and let’s assume the backup can be easily imported into another platform. But what about the unique web address for my social network profile? Would I be able to claim it back later, after somebody else has possessed it? Domain names switch hands, too, but managing the process is easier and more clear— especially since there is a financial relationship between you and the seller which makes it less prone to sudden and untransparent decisions.
But the scariest outcome of the centralization of information in the age of social networks is something else: It is making us all much less powerful in relation to governments and corporations.
Surveillance is increasingly imposed on civilized lives, and it just gets worse as time goes by. The only way to stay outside of this vast apparatus of surveillance might be to go into a cave and sleep, even if you can’t make it 300 years.
Being watched is something we all eventually have to get used to and live with and, sadly, it has nothing to do with the country of our residence. Ironically enough, states that cooperate with Facebook and Twitter know much more about their citizens than those, like Iran, where the state has a tight grip on the Internet but does not have legal access to social media companies.
What is more frightening than being merely watched, though, is being controlled. When Facebook can know us better than our parents with only 150 likes, and better than our spouses with 300 likes, the world appears quite predictable, both for governments and for businesses. And predictability means control.
Middle-class Iranians, like most people in the world, are obsessed with new trends. Utility or quality of things usually comes second to their trendiness. In early 2000s writing blogs made you cool and trendy, then around 2008 Facebook came in and then Twitter. Since 2014 the hype is all about Instagram, and no one knows what is next. But the more I think about these changes, the more I realize that even all my concerns might have been misdirected. Perhaps I am worried about the wrong thing. Maybe it’s not the death of the hyperlink, or the centralization, exactly.
Maybe it’s that text itself is disappearing. After all, the first visitors to the web spent their time online reading web magazines. Then came blogs, then Facebook, then Twitter. Now it’s Facebook videos and Instagram and SnapChat that most people spend their time on. There’s less and less text to read on social networks, and more and more video to watch, more and more images to look at. Are we witnessing a decline of reading on the web in favor of watching and listening?
Is this trend driven by people’s changing cultural habits, or is it that people are following the new laws of social networking? I don’t know — that’s for researchers to find out — but it feels like it’s reviving old cultural wars. After all, the web started out by imitating books and for many years, it was heavily dominated by text, by hypertext. Search engines put huge value on these things, and entire companies — entire monopolies — were built off the back of them. But as the number of image scanners and digital photos and video cameras grows exponentially, this seems to be changing. Search tools are starting to add advanced image recognition algorithms; advertising money is flowing there.
But the Stream, mobile applications, and moving images: They all show a departure from a books-internet toward a television-internet. We seem to have gone from a non-linear mode of communication — nodes and networks and links — toward a linear one, with centralization and hierarchies.
The web was not envisioned as a form of television when it was invented. But, like it or not, it is rapidly resembling TV: linear, passive, programmed and inward-looking.
When I log on to Facebook, my personal television starts. All I need to do is to scroll: New profile pictures by friends, short bits of opinion on current affairs, links to new stories with short captions, advertising, and of course self-playing videos. I occasionally click on like or share button, read peoples’ comments or leave one, or open an article. But I remain inside Facebook, and it continues to broadcast what I might like. This is not the web I knew when I went to jail. This is not the future of the web. This future is television.
Sometimes I think maybe I’m becoming too strict as I age. Maybe this is all a natural evolution of a technology. But I can’t close my eyes to what’s happening: A loss of intellectual power and diversity, and on the great potentials it could have for our troubled time. In the past, the web was powerful and serious enough to land me in jail. Today it feels like little more than entertainment. So much that even Iran doesn’t take some — Instagram, for instance — serious enough to block.
I miss when people took time to be exposed to different opinions, and bothered to read more than a paragraph or 140 characters. I miss the days when I could write something on my own blog, publish on my own domain, without taking an equal time to promote it on numerous social networks; when nobody cared about likes and reshares.
That’s the web I remember before jail. That’s the web we have to save.
Log in to Medium and “recommend” this story.Follow Matter on Twitter | Like us on Facebook
Iranian-Canadian author, blogger. Freed from Evin prison after 6 yrs, in Nov 2014. Trying to get back to normal life. hoder@hoder.com
The story you’ve been missing.
Millions of narcissistic little jerks, reared by an uncommonly hysterical generation who instilled in their children the adamantine conviction that they are exceptional and necessarily worthy of respect, enrolled this week as freshman in universities across the United States.
There was a moment when this exercise might have tested these students, made better and new through confrontation with the uncomfortable and occasionally outrageous thought.
Now, instead, they will pass the next four years of pseudo-scholarship as they have the eighteen that preceded them: swaddled in institutionalized political correctness and protected always from the unconventional or provocative.
At two- and four-year colleges and universities all across the nation, administrators have adopted stringent “speech codes” that restrict speech and behavior otherwise explicitly protected under the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.
The result isn’t simply an emotionally delicate dolt, but a broader culture at jeopardy of losing the most foundational of human rights. Today’s over-sensitivity to offense means these students may be entirely desensitized to the loss of speech tomorrow, even in the face of gross government encroachment.
These speech codes stretch from the ludicrous, like Jacksonville State University’s* policy that students not offend anyone, to the plainly unlawful.
While regarded by administrators as a sort of legal prophylactic — if no one is offended, no one can bring suit against the university, the argument goes — these policies have actually invited serious and sustained litigation by students and civil liberties advocates.
According to a national policy review of more than 400 institutions of higher learning by the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE), a not-for-profit educational foundation, more than half of those schools with speech codes would not survive judicial review.
In the case of FIRE, some 36 schools have abandoned or severely restrained their speech codes after the group brought suit on behalf of aggrieved students and faculty whose right to lawful speech were infringed.
They’ve won, repeatedly, because the privilege not to be offended is no right at all. Moreover, intellectual discomfort is a necessary tool in emotional and scholastic development — and restrictive speech codes actively retard the process.
I should know: it wasn’t so long ago that I advanced from a parochial secondary school, wherein students were taught that man and dinosaur had once coexisted before a great flood washed the earth clean, to a monstrous state university where students learned genuine science.
This science was accepted, corroborated, quantifiable, and yet also deeply offensive to a child whose narrow appreciation for the world around him was fixed in young earth Creationism.
But my offense led to introspection, and in turn growth.
The new climate of institutionalized over-sensitivity that today plagues academia — the accepted belief that one has the right to never be offended — is so acute that dissent of any sort is not allowed. These policies require either conformity or silence, and they result in a dangerous chilling of the free exchange of ideas.
Millennials, the obnoxious selfie-snapping age cohort into which I was cursed to fall, are truly horrible enough without your help, academia. KTHXBAI.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely the author’s and do not necessarily reflect the views of his employer or clients.
*Ed. note: This article incorrectly attributed the speech code policy of Jacksonville State University to another university and has since been amended.
[Autonomous is a free digital magazine. But you can donate to the mission, and receive a variety of added benefits (including extra content), by visiting our Patreon page.]
A one-time flack for: @JonHuntsman, @HaleyBarbour, @RNC, @CRNC. Also, a yoga teacher.
A new look at American culture today, and where we’re headed — specifically, where culture intersects with politics, media, technology, morality and political correctness.

Countless books and articles have been written about Warren Buffett. Surprisingly few have been written about his business partner of over 40 years, Charlie Munger.
Munger has stayed out of the public eye, giving only a small number of public talks, and he’s rarely been covered in the media. At Berkshire Hathaway’s annual shareholder’s meetings, he lets Buffett answer the questions, often times commenting, “I have nothing to add.”
Recently, I decided to learn more about Munger’s 70-year career, and I’ve been blown away. His model for success, backed by research, is simple and game-changing. It flies in the face of conventional wisdom on career success.
Beyond The 10,000 Hour Rule
A great deal has been written about how deliberate practice over 10,000 hours within a specific area of expertise is the key to success.
While Munger has certainly worked long and hard to become one of the world’s top investors, the signature of his success is different. According to his own account, rather than focusing on investment theory like a laser, he has studied widely and deeply in many fields, including microeconomics, psychology, law, mathematics, biology, and engineering, and applied insights from them to investing.
Bill Gates has said of Munger, “He is truly the broadest thinker I have ever encountered. From business principles to economic principles to the design of student dormitories to the design of a catamaran he has no equal… Our longest correspondence was a detailed discussion on the mating habits of naked mole rats and what the human species might learn from them.” Munger has, in short, been the ultimate expert-generalist.
The Rise Of The Expert-Generalist
The rival argument to the 10,000 hour rule is the expert-generalist approach. Orit Gadiesh, chairman of Bain & Co, who coined the term, describes the expert-generalist as:
“Someone who has the ability and curiosity to master and collect expertise in many different disciplines, industries, skills, capabilities, countries, and topics., etc. He or she can then, without necessarily even realizing it, but often by design:
The concept is commonly represented by this model of the “T-shaped individual”:
While the 10,000 hour rule works well in areas with defined rules that don’t change such as sports, music, and games, the rules of business constantly and fundamentally change. Being an expert-generalist allows individuals to quickly adapt to change. Research shows that they:
Charlie Munger’s Approach To Being An Expert-Generalist
In connecting the dots across the disciplines, Munger has developed a set of what he calls models, which he uses to assess investment opportunities. In fact, he’s identified over 100 of these models that he uses frequently as of the publication of Poor Charlie’s Almanack. No doubt he continues to develop and perfect them.
What are these models exactly?
The best way to explain is to take the case of one he uses constantly, which he calls Two-Track analysis. It combines insights from psychology, neuroscience and economics about the nature of human behavior. This model instructs that when analyzing any situation in which decision-making by people is involved, which of course covers every business situation, he must consider two tracks:
Another example is classical conditioning developed by Ivan Pavlov in the early 20th century. Pavlov discovered that with the right conditioning, dogs would salivate not just when eating food, but also in anticipation of it when he walked into the laboratory. Munger applies the same logic to business. In his book, he gives the example of how Coca-Cola (one of Berkshire Hathaway’s largest holdings) conditions its customers with the right frequency and type of advertising while using their logo as the trigger.
The following is a summary of his rules on being an expert-generalist in his own words, excerpted and condensed from the various talks he’s given:
Rule #1: Learn Multiple Models
“The first rule is that you’ve got to have multiple models — because if you just have one or two that you’re using, the nature of human psychology is such that you’ll torture reality so that it fits your models.”
“It’s like the old saying, ‘To the man with only a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.’ But that’s a perfectly disastrous way to think and a perfectly disastrous way to operate in the world.”
Rule #2: Learn Multiple Models From Multiple Disciplines
“And the models have to come from multiple disciplines — because all the wisdom of the world is not to be found in one little academic department.”
Rule #3: Focus On Big Ideas From The Big Disciplines (20% Of Models Create 80% Of The Results)
“You may say, ‘My God, this is already getting way too tough.’ But, fortunately, it isn’t that tough — because 80 or 90 important models will carry about 90% of the freight in making you a worldly-wise person. And, of those, only a mere handful really carry very heavy freight.”
Rule #4: Use A Checklist To Ensure You’re Factoring in the Right Models
“Use a checklist to be sure you get all of the main models.”
“How can smart people be wrong? Well, the answer is that they don’t…take all the main models from psychology and use them as a checklist in reviewing outcomes in complex systems.”
Rule #5: Create Multiple Checklists And Use The Right One For The Situation
“You need a different checklist and different mental models for different companies. I can never make it easy by saying, ‘Here are three things.’ You have to drive it yourself to ingrain it in your head for the rest of your life.”
The Expert-Generalist Approach In Different Fields
Whether or not you decide to follow Munger’s particular approach, one clear takeaway is the value of gaining a wide breadth of knowledge while also drilling deeply into your area of specialty.
Many of the top scientists, business leaders, inventors and artists throughout time have also achieved their breakthrough successes by being an expert-generalist. Albert Einstein was trained in physics, but to formulate his law of general relativity, he taught himself an area of mathematics far removed from his expertise, Riemannian geometry. James Watson and Francis Crick combined discoveries in X-ray diffraction technology, chemistry, evolutionary theory and computation to solve the puzzle of the double helix. Steve Jobs, of course, drew on insights from his study of calligraphy and a rich understanding of design to create a new breed of computing devices.
Here is an infographic with 25 of the top expert-generalists throughout history:
Bain & Company chairman, Orit Gadiesh, attests to the value of being a voracious reader across many domains in her own career, saying:
What’s more, those who can bridge the gaps between silos are becoming more valuable than ever as the amount of knowledge in the world and its fragmentation continue to accelerate.
Being An Expert-Generalist Will Become More And More Valued
The discipline known as scientometrics is the science of science; it studies the evolution of scientific knowledge. Two of the key findings of this field are:
As disciplines emerge and mature, they develop their own cultures and languages. Each has its own terminology along with its own journals and annual conferences. This specialization has already become so extreme that those who are specialists in one subfield of a discipline often know little to nothing about the work going on in other subfields.
Consider the increasing specialization that has led to one important new area of science, epigenetics. Epigenetics is essentially the study of how environmental factors affect how our genes are expressed. When biology emerged as a field of its own out of medicine and natural history in the 19th century, it would have been possible for any biologist to gain a good grasp of the whole field. Today, many geneticists would tell you they don’t have any real understanding of the findings in epigenetics.
Given this state of affairs, many professionals have determined the best approached is to go into sub, sub, sub specialties, where they can hope to become one of the best if they follow the 10,000 rule. That can indeed be fruitful. But opportunities also abound for those who instead develop an aptitude for building connections across disciplines.
Expert-generalists face far less competition. The more fields you can pull from, the fewer people you’ll find taking the same approach. When it comes to drilling into one domain,the competition is generally fierce. Narrowly specializingalso leaves you vulnerable to the ever-more daunting forces of change. Orit Gadiesh offers insight in this regard:
“As technology, globalization, geopolitical challenges, and competition accelerate the disruption of business, people are confronted with challenges, customs, and issues they have never experienced before. I find that experts — someone with deep knowledge limited to just one area — often lack the flexibility needed to adapt to change and can be easily flustered or, worse, be completely derailed.”
Curiouser and Curiouser
The business world has placed great emphasis on focus, and rightly so. It is a vital ingredient of success. But more emphasis must now be placed on curiosity. Too often, we are so pressed by the day-to-day demands of work that we aren’t making time for exploration, diving into areas entirely outside our range of experience, letting our minds run, and finding inspiration from encountering new ideas with uncertain payoffs.
So, when you find yourself pushing back, the inner voice of work overload screaming that you don’t have time to be reading that book you just picked up about the physics of time travel or the novel someone recommended by the Nigerian Nobel Prize winner, remember this: Bill Gates recalls that the longest correspondence he’s had with Charlie Munger wasn’t about an investment, it was about the mating habits.
* * * * *
As a resource for this article, I put together a 27-page report you can download at no cost. It summarizes the psychological biases that Munger has identified throughout his 70-year career. I put it together because I didn’t see another summary anywhere else that was easy to comprehend or apply.
* * * * *
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Flossing. 30 minutes of daily physical activity. Morning meditation.
Yuck. Blah. Shit.
As someone who rarely succeeds in forming a new habit, I’m both proud and confounded to say I’ve somehow managed to start a daily ritual and keep up with it for the past eight months.
That ritual is called Morning Pages, and it has become part of my morning routine into the Escape School in London:
Wake up. Shower. Make a 3-egg and veg scramble. Walk to the Tube. Step onto the District line. Sit down. Pull out my notebook. Start writing.
My task is to write three pages, longhand. If I don’t hit three pages on my Tube ride (which I normally don’t), I duck into a coffeeshop to finish the rest.
So, what are these “Morning Pages” and why do I care so much about them?

Morning Pages is a practice introduced by Julia Cameron in The Artist’s Way, a book designed to help blocked creatives get unblocked.
Although it’s disguised as a book for “artists” — it’s really a guide for anyone who’s feeling stuck, unfulfilled in their work, or believe that their best music is left unsung (even if they don’t know what song they’re meant to be singing).
It’s a book to help people deal with that sonofabitch Steven Pressfield calls out by name in The War of Art: “The Resistance”
Cameron’s The Artist’s Way is meant for anyone who wants to tap back into their creative selves. Which frankly could be any of us. Because, if we’re honest, we’re all creative. Even if we’ve managed to forget that somewhere along the way.
There are two bedrock practices that Cameron swears by and implores her readers to undertake in The Artist’s Way. The first is Morning Pages. (The second is the Artist Date, which is an equally amazing practice, and which I’ll write about another time).
The practice of Morning Pages is simple: write three pages, long-hand, upon (or nearly upon) waking. No thinking, no analyzing, no stressing. Just write. Put pen to paper and squiggle it around until it forms words. What you write matters little. What matters is just that you write. Get whatever is at the forefront of your mind out of your mind and place it onto the page. Do not hold back. Do not judge. And do not stop until you’ve hit three pages.
This is not meant to be high art. The output of Morning Pages is not for public consumption. Cameron suggests they’re not even for private consumption:
I’ve come to love my morning pages. Which is unlike my love/hate relationship with writing publicly (my soul seems to require it, but damnit the process feels like wrestling with the Hulk). I love my morning pages because there is no heaviness in the outcome of the pages. It’s a form of unnecessary creation — just writing for the sake of writing. There may be heaviness in trying to form the habit of writing itself (more on this below), but once you crack that, it’s all lightness. It’s a lightness that lives in caring about the process itself, not in the outcome of that process.
Sometimes my morning pages are a streaming conscious-like flow of questions with half-assed answers. Sometimes they recount a day or a night or a moment. Other times they explore a philosophy, an idea, an obstacle or an opportunity. Sometimes they feel profound. Mostly they feel like bitching, and if read out loud, would resemble cracked-out crazy-person talk.
Which I suppose is the point. So much of our mind, if we’re paying attention, is cluttered and a’flutter with unhelpful, cracked-out thoughts. It’s this kind of muck that blocks us from doing the work we truly aspire to be doing; it’s the junk that hold us back from becoming the person we hope to become.
Whether it’s Morning Pages or some other ritual, it seems that people who create things that resonate or live storybook-like lives have some sort of daily practice. Entire books are even dedicated to the daily routines of accomplished people.
Whatever the routine, it seems that one purpose of these daily rituals is to get the noisy crazies out of the way to leave space for some magic to enter. If it chooses to enter. Or rather, put both the crazy and magic together on the same page so at least you can view them as peers and have a better shot at telling them apart.
Morning Pages is a sifter for the mind. Like meditation or running, it’s one more tool used to separate and disarm those unhelpful thoughts and help those introverted golden thoughts to shine through. Because there are gold in dem hills. Sometimes we just need a practice and a tool to help extract it.
Morning Pages have the potential to be cathartic, helpful and light. If there is a heaviness, it doesn’t exist in the ritual itself, but on the road toward the ritual.

I’m certainly no expert on building habits or rituals. (For that, I suggest checking out The Power of Habit by Charles Duhigg.) But if there’s anything I’ve learned from my newfound dedication to Morning Pages, it’s that there are ways to encourage a habit to stick.
Writing and becoming a better writer is something that drives me. It’s a strong craving I fell into when I started this blog. It’s something I can’t seem to shake.
For the habit you hope to create — what is your burning why behind it all? Why bother with this habit at all?
Sometimes the craving can come from a pain that’s too tough to bear.
Craving or pain, try to articulate and harness a strong emotion and align it with the why behind the habit. Find it and hold it tightly. Tie it to the new habit you hope to form. Use it as fuel. Give it a purpose. Your habit depends on it.
My Morning Pages has a friend — my already established daily routine.
When I sit down on the Tube, the act of pulling out my notebook has become a knee-jerk reaction. It happens almost without me thinking.
My Morning Pages also has a kryptonite — the absence of my routine.
When I do not take the Tube in the morning, when I am rushing to a meeting, when my morning routine is shaken up — my habit crumbles. My Morning Pages live and die by my ability to keep a routine.
Ideally, if the habit has sustained long enough, it will become its own ingrained habit like eating breakfast or brushing teeth. Which is a ritual’s goal: to become a routine itself so that another new ritual can piggyback on top of it.
What’s my reward for having done morning pages? For one, it’s the satisfaction of achieving a little sliver of clarity and comfort that the Pages tend to deliver. It doesn’t always come. But the times that it does makes it worth the daily habit.
There’s also the reward of having written and documented my thoughts. It’s being able to look at my stack of weathered notebooks and know that I’ve created something, just for the sake of it. For the sake of remembering that I am a human and therefore can create. And that when faced with the choice to either create or not create — I went forth and created.
And finally, as someone who sways toward introversion, I’ve noticed it takes dedication, care and patience to make myself heard. Even if it’s only to myself.
Like the simple truth Bertie learns leading up to his final battle with the mic in The King’s Speech, Morning Pages helps to remind me: “I have a voice.”
And if that isn’t reward enough, I’m not sure what is.
Thank you for reading.
If you enjoyed this and think it can help others, will you please “Recommend” or share with a friend?
And if you want to stay in touch with me (Matt), please join me…On my home turf: GiveLiveExploreIn London at The Escape SchoolOR…In the English countryside for a weekend of fun & adventure: Escape to the Woods
Former consultant turned deliberate journeyer @ GiveLiveExplore.com. Building a school for corp escapees @escthecity. Publishing @TalesofIceland. Speaking @TEDx
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

What is one thing most successful people have in common? They get up extra early and make the most of the morning. Here’s why:
Waking up early gives you time to think before the buzz of the day begins. To put it simply, the early morning is “you time” — a time to lay out your priorities for the day and make progress against them, before others are demanding your time and attention. It puts you firmly in control of each day.
Of course it is awfully hard to get out of bed, but that’s exactly why early risers have the competitive advantage over everyone else. They tackle the day while others hit the snooze button.
Here are just a few examples of ultra-successful early risers:
Did you notice another consistent trend among all of these ultra-successful people? Everyone’s morning ritual includes exercise as a key component.
In addition to the overall health and fitness benefits, studies have shown that moderate-intensity exercise for 20+ minutes produces a mental and emotional boost for the following 12 hours! This means that these business leaders are likely more clear-headed, effective, and productive at work as a direct result of their morning workout. The exercise time also allows them to think and problem-solve without interruption, so they hit the ground running once they get into the office. Morning exercise is an incredibly efficient use of time.
In addition to waking up extra early and exercising, here are a few more morning habits to get your day moving in the right direction:
All of this sets you up for success before your “work day” even begins, whatever form that may take for you. Being a morning person isn’t reserved for just C-level execs. Everyone will benefit from implementing these good habits.
Think it’s not possible for you because you need the extra sleep? The experts would say to get to bed earlier the night before to make the early wake-up call tolerable.
These tips and success stories help motivate me to get out of bed when all I want to do is sleep a bit more, and hopefully they also inspire you to make the morning your secret weapon!
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
If you enjoyed this post, please hit the “recommend” button below. Thanks!
For more stories like this one, “Follow” me to see my latest posts.
I write about good habits for productivity, health, happiness, & success. Marketing at Clif Bar, formerly Red Bull, Dodgers, Red Sox. Twitter @andrewmerle
Sharing our ideas and experiences
Everyday, I receive emails, LinkedIn smail (spam mail), texts and/or Facebook messages from people looking for resume help. I typically don’t respond to them — not because I don’t want to help but because they’re not listening to me when I tell them that any resume I create is NOT going to get them a job.
And, let me be straight, it’s not because I’m not good at fabricating bullet points for them.
The reason upgrading their resume isn’t going to work is because it’s not a resume that scores you a job. It’s relationships.
Have you ever heard the saying: “It’s who you know?”
It’s the absolute truth.
Today, I’m going to detail how you can land a job, and it does NOT involve me (or you) writing or editing your resume.
What it does involve is learning how to navigate your email inbox and woo your way into hiring managers’ (or their bosses’).

Duh! This is what you’re probably thinking.
It’s not what I’m thinking though since I receive emails from senders with addresses like “popprincess69@aol.com” and “iluvaaron@yahoo.com.”
Alright, alright, those are extreme examples, but they’re not far off, and they’re actually REAL humans — not spam bots.
Here’s my setup tips. Read them. I bet there’s something you forgot!
This is the prettiest email signature solution. Not only is it a better looking option but it is also easy to switch signatures between email accounts.
Yesware reports email opens, link clicks and file attachment downloads. This is valuable because it lets you know if you should follow up with someone or not and when, if you should. It also has a template feature many of you could use. Let’s say you’re applying to jobs, and you’re finding that you’re saying basically the same thing every time you email hiring managers. Write and save a template in Yesware then just personalize it from now on. That could knock off a lot of time for you.
Crystal isn’t kidding when it claims to be the biggest improvement to email since spell check. This email extension creates unique personality profiles for every person with an online presence, prepping you to speak or write in someone else’s natural, communication style. Crystal not only makes recommendations on which words you should use, but it even generates email templates based on the person you’re communicating with.
A LOT of emails are being tracked for clicks and opens. Use Ugly Email, a free gmail extension that tells you when an email is being tracked before you open it. This circumvents problems like opening an email and then not responding or opening the email 75 million times, which makes you look unproductive.
If you want to know other email tools I love check out this article.
According to Mindtools, the average office worker receives around 80 emails each day.
That makes it REALLY EASY for hiring managers to skip over your email, when it includes an error. Your email has an error if it’s:
The perfect email is short, easily scannable and includes a very clear call-to-action (CTA).
If you forget any of my tips, don’t forget this one!!! Make your email easily scannable. That means break up paragraphs into one sentence — two, if you must.
By this I mean utilize bold text, italics, and bullet points. This helps make your email easily scannable. Sometimes I even change important text’s color to red or highlight important sentences in bright yellow.
Send or schedule (if you use Yesware), your emails at optimal times. Think about it for a second. The best time to send a job request/application is most likely not at 1 a.m. on a Saturday night/morning. Monday probably isn’t good either because professionals will be busy playing catch up. I recommend sending between Tuesday and Thursday, in the morning or afternoon, say between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m.
Here are the elements of a damn good email.
Subject LineThe goal of your subject line is to drive the person you want to read your email to, well, open it to read the damn thing. I like to do this by complimenting the receiver in the subject line and letting them know that I want to provide value to them.
See how I did this in the fictitious example above to myself?
I told them I was a HUGE fan then preceded to tell them I wanted to HELP them do something.
Message
A mentor once told me to send 50 emails per week to get what I wanted, and our advisor, said he used to send as many as 300 per week to get generate new business.
Emails are how you get what you want from someone you don’t know, i.e. hiring managers.
Here’s what you got to do.
Yes, 25. That isn’t a lot so I don’t feel bad assigning you that many.
You may say: But, Lauren, there are not 25 jobs posted that I want.
And I’ll say: But, Jimmy, that does not matter at all.
According to ABC, 80 percent of jobs are landed through networking.
Emailing allows you to network with people across the nation, not just those professionals in your city; therefore, if you want a job in NY but live in Idaho, you can simply shoot off an email introducing yourself to someone you admire in New York.
People to send emails to:
This is pretty self-explanatory. I reread my emails nearly five to six times before I hit send… And I still catch errors sometimes. #Embarrassing
I HATE following up because the last thing I ever want to be to someone I want something from is annoying. But guess what?! I do. Because if you don’t ask for what you want then you’ll never get what you want, and sometimes you have to ask for it multiple times.
Like Mark Cuban says, “Every no gets me closer to a yes.”
Too many of you give up too easily.
What if a hiring manager only responded to those who had enough gumption to write a follow up to her lack of response the first time?
It could happen. I’m sure there’s a manager out there that does this although I’m also sure that it’s rare.
Neil Patel recommends the template I took a screenshot of and copied below.
Here’s a few templates from this post on The Muse.
Here’s an example from when I followed up after a hiring manager had me complete an assignment, but then didn’t follow up with me within a week, as he promised.
Basically, just remember keep follow up emails short and to the point and don’t forget to provide alternatives for the receiver. Alternatives could include something like them delegating what you want to someone else. This way you always get what you want — a response.
This is how you get a job, my friends, — by creating relationships with people.
I don’t receive job offers on the reg because I’ve sent this perfectly concocted resume to millions of hiring managers.
Job offers come to me because I’ve invested the time to build a strong, helpful network of influential individuals in my field.
founder, freelanship.com | growth, inbound.org | entrepreneur editor, sitepoint.com
Some really awesome, forward-thinking stuff.
by Tobias van Schneider — First appeared in my personal email list.

We’re always waiting for inspiration to find us. We’re waiting to get inspired to paint this perfect piece of art, to build the next big thing or to come up with this great advertising idea. We’re just sitting there waiting.
I still do it sometimes, like an idiot as if I don’t know better after all these years of chasing inspiration.
The problem with finding the perfect inspiration is that it’s just a romantic dream. Waiting for inspiration to show up and solve my problems is really nothing more than an empty promise.
Inspiration is a little bit like love. Seeking for the perfect love is like seeking for perfect inspiration. The harder you try, the longer it will take. It’s like magic, maybe even luck.
Now you might think that luck is not fair and rather unpredictable because some have more and some have less. For me luck is more like an attitude.
You might not be able to control your own luck or inspiration, but you can definitely enhance it’s chances by putting yourself in positions where luck & inspiration is more likely to happen.
When talking about inspiration, we first need to stop seeking inspiration. This might sound counterproductive at first and appears to involve risk because we often work under pressure, and we don’t have the time to stop thinking about something we actually need to think about.
Let’s just imagine inspiration exists as a random pattern in our life, as in the example I illustrated below. When forcing to find inspiration (see 1) my path is very linear/narrow and the chances are pretty low to get hit by inspiration — It will probably take forever.
If I don’t try to force inspiration to happen, my path appears to be more organic & random (see 2). I might go for a walk, I go to the movies, read a book or just start working. It doesn’t matter what I do, but what happens is that I put myself in situations where I’m more likely to get hit by those little spots of inspiration.
The key is to start doing something, RIGHT NOW! — It’s about to start working immediately even if you don’t feel inspired or know where you are going yet. Inspiration will only hit you once you are already in motion, not while standing still doing nothing.
And as Pablo Picasso already said:
This is an interesting concept because it completely goes against our logic that we first have to be inspired in order to work. But in reality that’s a lie — It’s exactly the other way around.
So the next time you say “I just don’t feel inspired right now” you know how to fix it. Start working right now and create your own inspiration.
Happy SundayTobias
___I’m Tobias, a Product Design Lead at Spotify NYC. Founder of Authentic Weather & Semplice, Advisor & UX at memomi — www.vanschneider.com
Director of Fun & Product Design Lead at Spotify NYC / Founder @semplicelabs — Board of Directors @AIGANYC + Advisor @memorymirror

We love data and we track everything here at .io. So couple of weeks ago we decided to track our team performance in terms of keyboard and mouse activity during the working day.
Our team is small — 1 designer, 2 developers and 2 content editors. And a couple of management guys of course. Our office is at the floor 23, so apart from staring in the window we work a lot here.
We installed simple Chrome plugin on every macbook and collected some statistics within a week with our event tracking system t.onthe.io.
Developers showed pretty unexpected figures. They have less keypresses than editors and managers — around 4k every day.


The most popular key is Command (on Macs) — 20% of all keys. The least popular is Spacebar. They use Tab key 5 times more frequently than all the rest team members together.
Their activity during the day (and night) is the less predictable and the activity graphs have lots of smooth areas and jumps. That’s because they walk around, think a lot and after a “eureka” moment sit down and write tons of code.
Managers are total winners in terms of amount of pressed keys — 3 times more than developers and even 1.5 times more than editors!


They press a key every 3 seconds in average. Emails take a lot.
Managers’ activity during the day is quite stable — they write and receive letters all day long. An average amount of keys pressed during the day is 23k and more. Spammers.
Editors are typing twice as much as developers and make less mistakes. Backspace usage is less than for all the rest team.


And the most popular key is… the space — 10% of all keypresses.
Editors’ activity is not stable but pretty predictable. Activity peaks fall on the beginning of the day — when all the articles are written. For the rest of the day they read them through, replace the words, read again and again, and then post.
Designer is pretty predictable — Command and Backspace are two buttons that he presses 20% of all. He does more mouse moves than developers and content editors together. His mouse travels 1 kilometer every day.

Office manager is the least active, making only 2k keypresses per day. That’s 5 times less than managers. 11% of all used keys is Space.
What’s curious — the least popular keys are Capslock and Right Mouse Button. Somewhere around 0.1% of all keypresses together. It’s time to make some changes to keyboards.
So we have managers who are keypress leaders. Designer who is a mouse movement champion. And editors who are doing 2 times less errors than the team average.
Now we are wondering what we should track next. Ideas?

Bruce Lee wanted one of his students to die.
Then he explained why.
And he’s right. I’ve seen this happen to people in my own life.
My best friend growing up died from it. He just gave up. He stopped.
Every day you can decide: 1% up. Or 1% down. You never notice it from day to day because it’s such a small difference.
Pick one area of your life you love. And improve it 1%.
It’s the most important thing you will do today.
Written by someone being trained by Bruce Lee:
“Bruce had me up to three miles a day, really at a good pace. We’d run the three miles in twenty-one or twenty-tow minutes. Just under eight minutes a mile [Note: when running on his own in 1968, Lee would get his time down to six-and-a-half minutes per mile].
So this morning he said to me “We’re going to go five.”
I said, “Bruce, I can’t go five. I’m a helluva lot older than you are, and I can’t do five.”
He said, “When we get to three, we’ll shift gears and it’s only two more and you’ll do it.”
I said “Okay, hell, I’ll go for it.”
So we get to three, we go into the fourth mile and I’m okay for three or four minutes, and then I really begin to give out.
I’m tired, my heart’s pounding, I can’t go any more and so I say to him, “Bruce if I run any more,” — and we’re still running — “if I run any more I’m liable to have a heart attack and die.”
He said, “Then die.” It made me so mad that I went the full five miles.
Afterward I went to the shower and then I wanted to talk to him about it.
I said, you know, “Why did you say that?”
He said, “Because you might as well be dead. Seriously, if you always put limits on what you can do, physical or anything else, it’ll spread over into the rest of your life. It’ll spread into your work, into your morality, into your entire being. There are no limits. There are plateaus, but you must not stay there, you must go beyond them. If it kills you, it kills you. A man must constantly exceed his level.”
More From James
Latest Podcast: Ep 125: Rich Roll & Julie Piatt: Quit the NonsenseIs it possible to transform your life on the eve of your 40th birthday, and experience meaning, vitality, and purpose like you’ve never before imagined?
Latest Ask Altucher: Ep 335: Q&A DayWhat’s an effective way to deal with complainers? James says help the complainer focus on other things, and if they’re a chronic complainer, then just remove yourself from the conversation. You’ll notice the complaints will slow down.
Recommended Article: The One Learning Technique That Scared The S*** Out of Bruce LeeBruce Lee said, “I don’t fear the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks. I fear the man who practiced one kick 10,000 times.
For some reason, I've turned myself inside out and all my guts have spilled onto my blog. One day I'll run out of stuff but not yet.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Leaders lately aren’t. Here are their four top mistakes.
Whether it’s the rise of the extreme right in Europe, Donald Trump’s ascent in the US, Canada’s stunning plunge into fringe politics, the world is awash in a new political phenomenon: a tsunami of vocal, angry extremism, where once placid waters calmly shimmered. Not extreme enough for you? In one of the world’s most advanced societies, unemployed kids, of which there are too many, are going to have to go…not to school, college, or even community service…but to boot camp.
WTF?
In this short essay, I want to offer a lens through which to see this phenomenon. A few years ago, there was a huge leadership deficit in the world. No one, it seemed, was steering the ship. And perhaps you thought things couldn’t get worse. But today things are different: there’s not a deficit of leadership anymore. There is a surplus of bad leadership. Too many angry, blind pilots pointing ships…straight into the icebergs. Leadership, it appears, has fallen into a deep abyss. From which it must climb out, if it is to regain its place in the world again.
And before I begin let me note. This isn’t an essay I particularly want to write. But the truth is that there are too few voices speaking too few simple truths about this unsettling — and profoundly self-destructive — phenomenon.
Let us, then, put our prejudices aside, and examine these new leaders. So we may see what they stand for — and whether it is worth believing in. What is striking — and immediately obvious — is that they share four positions in common; and that is what distinguishes them as a phenomenon, a class, a category, a larger movement.
Fatalism. Donald Trump wants to deport even the innocent children of undocumented immigrants — and build a Great Wall of America. David Cameron has literally shut down immigration to the UK. In Australia, refugees (who are innocent of any crime) are detained in offshore prisons where they are allegedly waterboarded. What the neo-demagogues share, above all, is an absurd answer to the great question of social inclusion: none. The evidence, of course, suggests squarely that immigration (among other kinds of inclusion) is a great benefit to society. But the demagogue exploits people’s selfishness in an age of stagnation — why should the immigrant have any, when I suddenly have barely enough?
The demagogue exploits people’s selfishness because his is a world of zero-sum thinking. If I have more, you must have less. Hence, it is “logical”, the demagogues claims to wish everyone ill. Immigrants, the disabled, the poor, the vulnerable — when all these people have more, they are taking bread from your mouth!! That is the central claim of the demagogue, and it is present everywhere in their economic policies — which are simply largely excuses to beggar everyone’s neighbor. Hence, the demagogue proposes no real social policies at all — only cutting society…all the way to zero. Hence, Cameron in the UK is eviscerating the NHS, BBC, and more; Canada and Australia, too, are beginning to dismantle their great public institutions. After all, that is the logical endpoint of beggar-thy-neighbor: there are no public goods worth investing in at all.
But that is not what prosperity is at all: any reasoned understanding of it begins with the notion that if I am to have less for you to have more, then no one is better off in the first place; we have merely changed places. True prosperity is beyond the demagogue’s logic entirely: it is a state where both you and I benefit from one another’s existence, despite what it costs us. That may seem a subtle point. But it is the starting point for the great enterprise known as the social contract — for without a shared prosperity, there is no reason for citizens to bother with one another at all. To simplify: the demagogue tells us that social contracts are impediments in the way of prosperity — not its foundations and arches. And so he reduces the great accomplishments of history to rubble.
There’s a simpler way to put the zero-sum assumption of the demagogue: fatalism. It is a belief that the immigrant, the weak, the vulnerable — these cannot benefit the strong, the sure, those who “belong”; they simply do not have the potential to. It is a fatalistic disbelief in human potential itself. And you can’t be much of a leader if you don’t believe in human potential.
Scapegoating. You will note that the true cause of economic stagnation is not addressed by the demagogue at all. It wasn’t immigrants, the poor, or the vulnerable that caused a financial crisis. So who was it? Duh. It was bankers — who malinvested in toxic assets, and then flogged them, for a double profit, right back to the state, which promptly then had a crisis because it’s balance sheet suddenly went to hell. It’s so painfully stupid I have to say it again: the economy melted down because of badly run banks, not (of all people) immigrants — and frankly, if you believe anything but, you are a rube, a sucker, a mark. You think your plumber somehow flushed ten trillion dollars down the toilet?
Let me put it plainly. To persecute immigrants and the poor for a weak economy instead of bankers is like blaming your pet kitten for terrorism. That is precisely what neo-demagogues are doing when they blame immigrants (and other vulnerable groups) for weak economies: scapegoating them.
Nowhere — in not a single advanced economy — do we see demagogues calling for bankers to be prosecuted and brought to justice for ruining the economy — not a single modern day demagogue has called for it. But they are relentless, and extreme, in their persecution of people that didn’t ruin it. The interesting question is: why? It isn’t just that banks are the demagogue’s friend. Rather, it is because demagogues do not understand how the economy works at all. They equate money with wealth — and so they do not understand that wealth is what prosperity is actually composed of, and money is merely paper that helps us distribute it; therefore, money must be hoarded, concentrated, and denied to those who haven’t “earned” it — instead of distributed widely, precisely so society can continue to prosper. Real leaders don’t scapegoat: they do precisely the opposite — they celebrate (and reward) those who have truly bettered us.
Timidity. You may think that demogagues, angry and loud as they are, are reckless firebrands. But the truth is that they are timid, cowering, panicked things. Let me explain.
Because the demagogue believes that money is wealth, the next plank in his plan for society is to “eliminate the deficit”. But this is a negative real interest rate world. Little could be more mind-bendingly absurd. It’s so illogical I struggle to find a metaphor. Restoring economic health by cutting the deficit in a negative interest rate world is like trying not to have sex in order to reproduce.
Think about it. There are mountains of capital moving around the globe in desperate search of investment opportunities (hence, the super rich stashing money in London and NYC real estate). There has rarely been a better time for governments to invest, and invest with a vengeance, in modern history. Societies should be building gleaming new schools, hospitals, roads, bridges…giving free money to students…raising the salaries of teachers and other public employees…everything and anything under the sun that society so visibly needs.
Let me make the logic crystal clear. If I offered to lend you a million dollars, at a negative interest rate of ten percent a year, for 100 years, would you accept? You’d be one of history’s great fools not to. You’d have to pay me back…zero; in fact, I’d owe you money. You could simply invest a market index, or even just hold cash, and you’d make free money. Your timidity would lead you to miss a life-changing opportunity.
But that is exactly what demagogues don’t want governments to do. They believe, timidly — and have convinced foolish people — that nations are “going broke”; that they cannot “afford to” invest in public goods, like schools, hospitals, roads, or clean air and water. Why? Not just because they are economic illiterates — but because they are devoted to their own ignorance. They fetishize the deficit like a wrathful god to be ritualistically appeased with human sacrifice. But real leaders don’t timidly, fearfully obey empty commandments—they are bold and wise enough to revolt. Especially against hollow gods, whether made of stone or of numbers, in the promise of each life’s possibility to grow and mature.
Dehumanization. It’s possible, of course, for demagoguery to come from either left or right. But what is characteristic of neo-demagogues today is that they are products of the extreme right. Why? Because, in the wake of financial crisis, in the teeth of economic stagnation, people are overwhelmed by anxieties and fears that have left them angry, worried, and confused. How will my children prosper? How will I retire? Who will take care of me in my old age? How will we afford to maintain the lifestyle to which we are accustomed?
The demagogue’s choice is to provide people answers which exploit their prejudices and biases, and prey on their ignorance and foolishness. Demagogues, in short, bring out the worst in people. And that is why they are very effective politicians. They may arouse the passions of people. But they do so in the same that a drug dealer might. They awaken people’s appetites for self-destruction and hate — not for creation, nobility, and greatness.
Let me explain.
The demagogue justifies his claims with a very simple appeal. If we’d exclude the weak, pay off the bills, and punish the undeserving, the demagogue claims, everyone else could have a life worth living. And that life is precisely the same for all the neo-demagogues of meta-modernity. It is a dream of hyperrational individualistic materialism: a McMansion, a fleet of cars, and gadgets for every family. So what’s wrong with that? Nothing.
But there’s not much right with it, either. The simple truth is that is the least a great society should aspire to. More than mere material prosperity, a society that wishes to be truly great must encourage it’s people to be great. Great thinkers, artists, healers, teachers, leaders, creators, dreamers, builders. Not just grinning brain-dead zombie-consumers sucking down the dregs of post-capitalist prosperity left at the bottom of the cup through a broken straw of corrupt institutions and wrecked social contracts. But that is precisely what the neo-demagogues of meta-modernity want us to be.
That is their true gleaming flaw. Not merely that they call forth the worst in us. But that they do not do justice to the best in us. For the best that they want for us is merely the worst in us…not to be great, noble, wondrous people, who do amazing and remarkable things…but merely to be monsters with insatiable appetites. Not beings, who, though born in sin, defiantly ever hold the possibility of grace in our broken hearts.
That is the tragedy of the demagogues. They ask us to hate. But they do not know that we must, if we are to live fully, love. Not merely in the empty technological consumerist sense — a tap, a swipe, a date, and a hangover. But in the true and timeless sense. We must brim over with mercy if we are to know grace. We must overflow with humility if we are to know meaning. We must burst open our selves if we are to know their place in creation. It is not enough for us to be consumers, bullies, predators, smiling monsters denouncing our neighbors, if we are to be the people we were meant to be. We must be dreamers, rebels, renegades, heretics, outlaws. Everything, in short, that the demagogues do not want us to be.
That, of course, is our great challenge. To be the very leaders that a broken, hunted, anxious world is so desperately missing.

UmairNYCAugust 2015

Photo credit.
author, economist, slayer of zombies.
Essays  by Umair Haque

UPDATE: Thanks to a good friend of mine, at the end of this text is the English version.Thank you very much Giovana Angelo.
Todos têm um limite, mesmo os jornalistas e fotojornalistas, e embora seja difícil de chegar a ele, hoje eu cheguei.
E passei dele.
Começo esse texto com dois pedidos de desculpas:
1º — Sei que várias vezes critiquei a postura de alguns fotógrafos que se deixavam levar pelo calor da situação quando deveriam apenas observar e registrar, mas hoje fui eu que me vi nessa situação;
2º — Não irei usar uma linguagem jornalística neste texto. Já que cruzei a fronteira uma vez, vou aproveitar a viagem, então se preparem, não vou segurar a língua.
Pois bem, já sabia que hoje seria um espetáculo bizarro, cheio de coisas que, como diria um grande amigo meu (abraço para você meu caro amigo Américo), fariam um macaco vomitar.
Normalmente eu parto da política de apenas registar fotograficamente os eventos sem interferência nenhuma, sem questionar ou discutir além do necessário para o trabalho, mas acho que todo mundo tem um limite, além do que, já deixei para trás faz tempo a ilusão de que existe o jornalismo imparcial. Aliás, essa foi uma descoberta bacana, porque pude entender que posso me posicionar e ainda assim fazer um trabalho jornalístico decente.
Já no final da tarde, um grupo de membros dos Jornalistas Livres resolveu fazer uma intervenção onde uma bandeira do Brasil era estendida e uma pessoa deitava sobre ela, toda coberta de sangue (ketchup, só para constar) enquanto sua mãe pranteava sua morte. Depois disso, um cartaz era colocado com os dizeres Falta vermelho nessa bandeira. Claro que qualquer pessoa com o mínimo de bom senso teria notado que isso era uma menção à chacina ocorrida no final de semana em Barueri e Osasco, mas como o “sangue” era vermelho, isso foi o suficiente para decretar que aquelas pessoas eram petistas. Sem julgamento, sem chance de defesa, apenas com um júri/juiz/executor, ou melhor dizendo, uma turba de acéfalos que não faziam ideia do que estavam falando.
É claro que não sou ingênuo de achar que essa ação por mais que tenha um fundo crítico e politizado, teve sua parte de provocação, mas até então isso não deveria ser problema já que todos batiam no peito ao dizer que era um protesto pacífico e democrático (precisam urgentemente rever o conceito de democrático) além de sequer terem mencionado “aqueles que não devem ser nominados” (só para não ficar dúvida, estou falando de Dilma, Lula e o PT).
Durante a performance, quando a atriz estava deitada, duas pessoas que são dessa gente de bem resolveram participar da intervenção (#sqn) da forma que esse povo entende por democracia: Uma senhora, na casa dos seus 40 anos, muito bem vestida resolveu pintar a testa da atriz com as tintas que ela carregava. Um outro rapaz, mais eufórico, pegou uma caneca de plástico, também cheia de tinta, e atirou contra ela.
A atriz, como uma boa morta, não se mexia, não reclamava, apenas ficava ali inerte, cumprindo o seu papel e jogando na cara deles uma realidade que praticamente todos ali faziam questão de ignorar.
Quando a atriz se levantou já no encerramento da intervenção, ela ficou ali parada, em pé, com o olhar perdido e ignorando os gritos que a chamavam de bandida, vagabunda, ladrão (sim, eles tem problemas em concordar os gêneros eu acho) e outras coisas.
Não bastasse, mais um manifestante resolveu colar na testa dela um adesivo, numa pífia tentativa de chamar a atenção ou, a probabilidade que mais me assusta, de realmente achar que estava fazendo algo bom, algo correto.
Depois disso, me dirigi ao cidadão que jogou a tinta na atriz e à mulher que havia pintado o rosto dela. Ambos estavam próximos (talvez a gente realmente atraia aquilo que emanamos…) e pedi se podia gravar uma declaração deles sobre o que havia acontecido ali e também sobre o que fizeram.
O cara (vou chamá-lo assim já que nem o nome quis dizer) diz “Não cara, melhor não” e a mulher diz “não quero, não autorizo”. Nessa hora perguntei porque eles tiveram peito de jogar a tinta, mas não tinham a mesma coragem para falar e serem filmados e a resposta foi o primeiro passo além do meu limite.
O cara me chama de canto e fala baixo em meu ouvido que não queria falar porque ele já havia sido filiado a partidos políticos e isso poderia pegar mal para ele. Bizarro não? Jogar tinta em uma pessoa não pega mal, mas dar uma entrevista falando o porque de ter feito isso pega muito mal.
A dama da paulista disse que fez isso porque era uma provocação dos petistas, quando retruquei dizendo que aquele ato não tinha relação com o PT e era uma crítica aos assassinatos do final de semana. Com toda a educação do mundo (e arrogância de um burguês no sentido literal da palavra) ela me disse que “Ali não era lugar pra fazer isso. Se quisessem protestar que fossem fazer isso lá em Osasco e não ali na Paulista”. Com um profundo pesar (pelo tipo de ser humano que ela era) perguntei se a violência na periferia não era uma pauta que merecia ser levada às ruas, mas ela disse que “não, coisa da periferia tem que ser resolvida na periferia” e após proferir essa frase abundante em bondade, democracia e justiça (vale lembrar que virava e mexia se ouvia nos trio elétricos alguém dizendo que eles não estavam lá por se preocuparem com seus próprios umbigos, mas sim por querer o melhor para o país todo. Aham… senta lá Cláudia!) ela encerrou o assunto dizendo “Você não concorda comigo e eu não concordo com você, então não tem porque conversarmos.”. Não sei se só para mim isso soou como você está comigo ou está contra mim.
Saí dali e fui até a esquina onde os atores haviam ido para retomar a intervenção, próximo de um destacamento de policiais.
Novamente foram seguidos por várias pessoas que continuavam com seus gritos de ordem (aqueles que falei antes lembram? Petistas, vagabundos, ladrões, miseráveis e outros. Lembraram?). Nesse momento eu já estava bem frustrado e de saco cheio, mas ainda mantinha a determinação de tentar apenas observar até que novamente escuto um senhor com os seus 60 e tantos anos chamar eles de petistas. Parei e perguntei (acreditem, de forma educada. Pasmem!!!!) se ele sabia que aquilo era uma crítica a chacina que havia acontecido em Osasco e o que ele achava disso.
“Foi muito bom que tenham feito isso. Tinha que matar mesmo.”.
Não dava mais, aí fodeu tudo e a paciência e tolerância foram para o saco. Um outro senhor, da mesma faixa etária, veio falar que essa chacina tinha sido de traficante matando traficante e eu disse que não, com certeza aquilo era trabalho de policiais.
Pronto, acabou a educação. Entre perguntas se eu sabia o que era um inquérito e que os jornais só mentiam, a coisa foi chegando ao ponto em que eu virei “um bosta” e logo depois eu já era a escória e sei lá mais o que. Nessa hora confesso que entrei na pilha dele e fiquei de saco cheio e comecei a discutir.
Errei? Talvez, mas não tenho sangue de barata e até que demorou para ele ferver. Era insano discutir com ele, argumentos desconexos, um ódio cego e sem sentido. Quando ele me xingou a primeira vez eu perguntei se eu o havia ofendido ou se ele me conhecia para afirmar esse tipo de coisa. Disse que eu era um petista e que eu estava ali fotografando de graça. Então eu disse que não, que eu estava fazendo fotos para uma agência de fotografia e ele me pergunta se eu não quero então fotografar de graça um aniversário ou casamento para ele.
Alguém entendeu?
Nessa hora eu já comecei a tirar sarro e dizer que ele devia ir jogar bingo ou sentar na praça para jogar milho para os pombos ao invés de ir lá ficar falando besteira, mas como não sou ruim, também disse para ele maneirar porque naquela idade ele já devia tomar cuidado com a pressão e não ficar tão exaltado (ok, fui irônico sim caso alguém não tenha notado).
Seria engraçado se não fosse trágico você ouvir um senhor de idade (mas lembrem-se, os canalhas também envelhecem) dizer:
— Esse é um protesto pacífico e respeitoso. Seu bosta!!!!!
Se isso é um protesto pacífico e respeitoso, gostaria de saber qual a visão dele de um protesto agressivo e desrespeitoso. Não, pensando bem não quero não.
A essa altura, outros amigos fotógrafos intervieram para tentar acalmar os ânimos e também começaram a ser agredidos verbalmente pelas pessoas que se amontoavam ali.
Os policiais próximos do tumulto fizeram o que passaram o dia todo fazendo: Ficaram de paisagem.
Os gritos cessaram e segundo alguns que estavam ali e afirmaram categoricamente, eu era um petista. Engraçado pensar que eu nem sabia que o era, até porque eu justifiquei meu voto nas últimas eleições (mas votaria na Dilma se tivesse votado).
Hoje senti na pele a tal da polarização que tanto se fala. Ou você é uma coisa ou você é outra e ponto final. Alguns amigos disseram que eu havia vacilado em entrar na pilha do velho (velho no sentido de retrógrado e anacrônico e também da idade), mas chega uma hora que não dá para ouvir tanta besteira e se calar.
Sempre pensei que o trabalho de um fotojornalista é o de mostrar a realidade e provocar mudanças, mas além de disso acho que o principal é não perder a capacidade de se indignar com as injustiças.
Posso ter errado do ponto de vista jornalístico, profissional, porém não me arrependo e faria tudo de novo se fosse necessário.
O Brasil está ferrado como está? Sim, sem dúvida alguma, mas se essas pessoas são a única solução, então infelizmente o país tem um triste futuro pela frente.
E quando eu estava indo embora, cutucaram meu ombro. Uma moça que estava ali e que eu nunca tinha visto. Ela estava ali para encontrar com o namorado e não me conhecia, mas quando me virei para ela, me deu um sorriso e disse:
— Parabéns pela coragem em enfrentar eles pelo que é certo.
Errei? Talvez tenha errado, mas quer saber? Foda-se, não tem preço a consciência tranquila por ter feito o que é certo.
Ou pelo menos o que acredito ser.


The day I was called ‘petista’
Everybody has limits, even the jornalists and photographers, and even though it is hard to reach it, today I did.
And crossed its line.
I will start this text with two apologies:
1st — I know that several times I have criticized the attitudes of some photographers that let themselves be carried away by the heat of the moment when they should only observe and register, but today I was the one who saw myself in that situation;
2nd — I will not use journalistic language in this text. Since I have already crossed the boundries once, I will seize the opportunity, so prepare yourselves, I will not hold my tongue.
Well, I knew today would be a bizarre episode, full of things that as friend of mine would say (nice regards to you my dear friend Americo), would make a monkey throw up.
Usually I adopt a political attitude to only register photographically the events without any interference, no questioning nor interfering beyond necessary for the job, but I think everybody has limits, besides I have already left behind a long time ago the illusion that impartial journalism exist. By the way, this was a nice discovery, because I could understand that I can take a side and still do a good jornalistic job.
(Photo)“The frying pan was made in France and the wooden spoon in Italy, but I bought them with my money. “ said the lady’s companion.
By the afternoon, a Free Journalist ‘s group member decided to perform where a Brazilian flag was extended and a person laid over it, all covered up of blood (ketchup by the way) while her mother mourned her death. After that, a post was hang with the saying ‘Red is missing in this flag’. This is for sure that anyone with a minimum of common sense would have noticed that it was referring to the slaughter happened at the weekend in Barueri and Osasco, but since the ‘blood ‘ was red, that was enough to decree that they were ‘petitas’. With no judgment, no chance of defending, just a jury/judge/ executor, or better saying, a bunch of dumb people that had no idea of what were saying.
(Photo )Performance done by journalists members criticizing the violence in the slums and the murders happened this weekend in Barueri and Osasco.
Of course I am not naive to think that this performance regardless it has a critic and ‘policized’ background, had some teasing, but so far it should not be a problem since everyone said it was a pacific and democratic protest (need urgently to review the concept of democratic) besides they did not mention “the ones that should not be named “ (just so there are no doubts, I am talking about Dilma, Lula, and PT)
During the performance, while the actress was laid down, two people of those good souls decided to join it in a way of their understanding of democracy: a lady in her 40s, very well dressed decided to paint the actress’s forehead with the paints she was carrying. Another guy, more euphoric, got a plastic cup, also full of paint, and threw at her.
The actress, as good dead, did not move, did not complain, just kept herself motionless, doing her job and showing them the reality that most people would rather ignore.
(Photo)Protesters paint and throw paint at the actress during the performance criticizing the violence against the black young people in the slums.
When the actress stood up at the end of the performance, she remained still, just starting and ignoring the screams that called her bandit, hooker, thief and other names.
As it was not enough, another protester decided to put a sticker on her forehead, trying poorly to draw attention or possibly what scares me most, of thinking that he was doing something good, something right.
(Photo)A protestor puts a sticker on the actress forehead during the act criticizing the violence in the slums
After that, I moved towards the gentleman who threw the paint on the actress and also the lady who painted her face and asked if I could record their statement about what happened and also about what they did.
The dude (this is how I will call him since he did not want to tell me his name ) said “no dude, better not “ and the lady said “I don’t want, I don’t authorize it.” Then I asked them why they had the courage to throw the paint, but did not have the same courage to speak and to be recorded, and the answer was the first drop out of my limit control.
The dude calls me quietly and whispers in my ears that he did not want to speak because he had already been part of political parts and this would be frown upon. Weird, isn’t? Throwing paint at someone isn’t frown upon, but giving an interview telling what they had done that is really frown upon.
The lady said she did it because it was a ‘petista’ teasing, then I said that the act did not have to do with PT and that was a critism of the murders that happened in the weekend.
Very politely (and arrogantly) she told me it was not the right place for it. If they wanted to protest they should go to Osasco instead of in Paulista. I felt pity (about the human being she is) and I asked if the violence in the slums should not be taken to the streets, but she said “no, slums issues should be solved in the slums” and after saying this phrase full of kindness, democracy and justice (it is good to remember that from on an on we could hear in the parades someone saying that they were not there because they carried about themselves, but because they want a better country for everyone) she ceased talking by saying “you don’t agree with me, and I don’t with you, so there’s no reason to talk.” I am not sure, but for me it sounded like ‘you are with me or against me.’
(Photo)Selfies and photos with the policemen of ‘tropa de choque’ that posed next to the blinders tank recently bought were common during the whole day.
I left the place and went to the corner where the actors had gone to keep on the intervention, nearby some policemen.
Once again they were followed by several people that kept with their demand screams (the names I told earlier, remember? ‘Petistas’, hooker, thief, miserable, and other names. Remember?) By this time I was frustrated and sick and tired of it, but still kept being determined to only observe until the moment I heard a gentleman who is his 60s calling them ‘petitas’. I stopped and asked (believe me, I was polite) if he knew it was critic to the slaughter that happened in Osasco and what he thought about it.
“It’s very good they did it. They had to kill indeed. “
That was it, then all my patience and tolerance were gone. Another man of the same age came to say that the slaughter was drug dealer killing drug dealer, and I said no, that was the police job for certain.
Done, the politeness was over. Between questions if I knew what was an enquiry and that the newspapers lied, it came to a point in which I was a “fool” and soon I was a trash and God knows what else. Then I confess that I was sick and tired of this and started to argue.
Was I wrong? Maybe, but I am not meek and mild and it took a while to get mad. It was insane arguing with him, disconnect arguments, a blind anger with no sense. When he scold me for the first time I asked if had ofended him or if he knew me to say that kind of thing. He said I was ‘petista’ and that I was photographing for free. I told him I was not, I was taking photos for an agency and then he asks me if want to photograph a birthday or a weeding for free.
Someone could understand it?
Then I started to joke and said he should play bingo or feed the pigeons instead of being there talking nonsense, but since I am not a bad person I also told him he should control himself especially in his age so he doesn’t suffer a heat attack (I was being ironic in case someone did not notice it.)
It would be funny if it was not tragic hearing an old man (but remember the mean people also get old) said:
This is a pacific and respectful protest. You bullshit!
If this is a respectful and pacific protest I would like to know in his point of view what is an agressive and disrespectful one. No, actually I don’t.
(Photo)Protester dressed up as ‘capitain america’ an another asking the American president, Barack Obama, for help.
By this moment some photographers coleagues came by to calm things down and also were scolded by the people around it.
The policemen nearby spend the day doing the same thing: just standing.
The screaming ceased, and according to some people who were there said I was ‘petista’. Funny thinking that I did not know what was it, even though I justified my vote in the last elections (but I would have voted in Dilma if had voted).
Today I felt the polarization so much talked about. You are either one thing or the other, and that is it. Some friends told me I made a mistake of arguing with the old guy. But sometimes it is hard to hear so many foolish things and hold our tongue.
I always thought that a photo jornalistic job is to show the reality and make changes, but besides it I think the main thing is not to loose the capacity of getting angry with the injustice.
I may have been wrong in the professional and journalistic point of view, but I don’t regret it, and would do everything again if needed.
Is Brazil so bad as it is? Yes, no doubts of that, but if those people are the only solution, then unfortunately the country has a sad future ahead.
And when I was leaving, I was poked on the shoulder by a lady who was there and who I have never seen before.She was there to meet with her boyfriend and she did not know me neither, but when I turned to her, she smiled and said:
- Congratulations for your courage facing them for what is right.
Did I made a mistake? Maybe I did, but you know what? I don’t care, there is no price for a peaceful mind for doing the right thing.
Or at least for what I believe it is.
I am a Brazilian photojournalist currently living in Santos, on the southern coast of São Paulo, Brazil.

Dear Periscope community and world,
We’d like to share an exciting update on Periscope’s growth, and provide some insight on how we measure our progress.
On August 2nd, we surpassed 10 million Periscope accounts. We launched Periscope just four months ago, on March 26, 2015. We would like to thank every single one of you for taking the time to use something that we’ve worked so hard to create. It means everything to us.
We’re even more stunned by the burgeoning usage of Periscope. Here’s the graph of our Time Watched since launching. We define Time Watched as the aggregate amount of time that people spend watching live broadcasts on iOS & Android. As of last week, we’re seeing over 40 years of video watched per day.
Time Watched is the metric we care about most, and what we’ll keep you updated on periodically. Here’s why Time Watched matters to us:
Optimizing for DAU/MAU doesn’t properly motivate our team to create a product that people love. Here’s why: if we were motivated to grow DAU, we’d be incentivized to invest in a host of conventional growth hacks, viral mechanics, and marketing to drive up downloads. This direction doesn’t necessarily lead to a better product, or lead to success for Periscopers. We hold ourselves accountable to Time Watched as an organizational measure because it reflects the kernel of our product, and our core values.
We hope this was helpful information to share. Most importantly, we want Periscopers to know and feel that they’re contributing to a growing ecosystem. And we want people to know that the Periscope team is measuring itself in a way that aligns with the value that the community gets from Periscope. We will continue to be transparent about what we think and why, and you should hold us to that. If there are other areas of our product or focus that we should be more transparent about, please tell us!
Thank you
Kayvon, Joe, and the Periscope team
Explore the world in real time through someone else's eyes
The core platform would not be too hard to agree on, as most people under 35 don’t disagree about things which to them are self-evident:
Gay marriage 👏 Climate change 🙀 Women’s bodies are, uh, their own 💃Military intervention for self-defense or protection only, no adventures 👊 Capitalism, duh, hugely pro 🙌 Believers/non-believers both welcome 😇
With these essentials and (any?) others agreed upon, we could spend our time debating — at least within the party — the things that are actually up for debate. It’s like my friend who told me the key to a successful marriage is to make sure you are aligned on kids, money, and sex. You’ll still fight, but you’ll spend your time fighting about “all the small things” because the big things are pre-agreed upon.
So why do this? Why establish a new party?
As of 2015, millennials (18–34) are now the largest group of human beings in the United States. 75. 3 million people. We just passed the boomers in size. And yet nearly all of our elected officials are boomers and none of them are millennials. It’s not surprising then that many millennials refer to the government as not truly representing them, or that we don’t “feel connected” to either of the current two parties. But if millennials are now the largest group of people in the country, and we are now all adults of voting age, isn’t it our job to represent ourselves?
Millennials can viably win seats in Congress now. So why not start by winning a couple seats now? If we are so good at the internet, shouldn’t we get started by using it to secure some of our own representation? And wouldn’t an amazing third party change everything about American politics if it could be a true swing vote? If the Tea Party can become influential, can’t we?
Here is one idea of how to get started:
We raise money for our candidates via crowdfunding. We mostly use YouTube and not TV, and as such we avoid a huge waste of campaign funds. We leverage social channels really well to get the message out, and go around the typical broadcast news infrastructure that invites so much money into politics. We will still need money, of course.
In races where we don’t run, which will of course be the vast majority to start, we make a recommendation to our party on who to vote for. We become influential in every election in the country. We are independent, and we recommend candidates on both sides. We welcome people of all ages to the party. Many people 35 years and above already identify with our values. They hunger for an alternative, and will be intrigued by our view of who to vote for. Our activism will give agency to our entire generation to vote, and if not satisfied by who to vote for, to run.
We are nation of entrepreneurs. If we are disappointed in the current offerings, isn’t it our job to create something that we are excited by? What was that quote about being the change you want to see in the world?
Our spirit animal could be a fox. 🐺
It’s easy to be cynical about American politics. It’s more important not to be. If we are not doing something about it, what is the purpose of our complaining?
If you think the Millennial Party is possibly a good idea, press recommend and hit retweet.
We’ll take your clicks as a vote that we should exist.
#millennialparty
I am @dunn. I love cilantro but understand the people that hate it. Founder and CEO @Bonobos Inc. www.bonobos.com and Founder @redswanventures www.redswan.vc.
Stationed on the West Coast of the United States, flanked by the blue hues of the Pacific Ocean, is a city that’s home to some of the greatest companies in the world. 700 miles south of that is San Francisco.
I moved to San Francisco two years ago to work for a startup called Padlet. I love it here. It’s like being in Hollywood, but with less-good-looking people. You have the celebs, you have the scandals, you have the media frenzy. My friends back home are full of questions:
“Is it fun?”
“You think I should look for a job there?”
“How far is Vegas?”
So, here is my experience. I hope it brings the readers closer to our little valley where we are building the future*.
My day begins with a 30 minute commute to work. I take the subway. The subway system in SF is called the BART, short for Bay Area Rapid* Transit. I love the BART because it is always full of surprises. E.g. yesterday, I was at the train station and bam! the train came on time.
Many drive to work. Driving in SF is like a theme park ride — the cars move bumper to bumper, the terrain is alpine, and the people around you have the temper of 10-year-olds.
Here is a pop-quiz — Which one’s an SF road and which one’s a roller-coaster?
Those with a death wish cycle to work. It is easy to spot a cyclist. If you see a guy with one side of his jeans rolled up to the shin, he is a moron; if you see a guy on a bicycle, he is a cyclist.
My office is in a neighbourhood called SoMa, short for South of Market. Many startup offices are in SoMa. The name is a tribute to the returns that investors in most of these startups will see in the long run.
SoMa is a vibrant area with a variety of establishments like Starbucks, local coffeeshops, grab-and-go coffee kiosks, and coffee trucks. It’s a shame I don’t drink coffee. It’s not that I don’t like the beverage. I just prefer not to consume anything at temperatures that would liquify my alimentary canal.
Why is coffee in SF so hot? Are people welding metal with it? The one time I asked a barista (phrased more politely, of course), I was reproached,
“Good coffee needs to be brewed at 200°F for full flavor.”
Odd! Good bread needs to be baked at 400°F but I don’t see any bakeries selling me searing dough bricks.
My company shares its office with two other companies — Buildzoom and Flexport. Judging from their names, Buildzoom manufactures high precision microscopes and Flexport ships fluorine to dentists in China. We all have a common investor named YC. YC is the venture capital arm of the YMCA. They invest in a lot of companies every year, many that seem outrageous on paper. E.g. they invested in a company called Swapbox, which, I believe, is cloud storage for swingers.
Now, you must be thinking — “Isn’t it stupid to judge a company by its name?” No. It’s not. Most companies in the Bay Area have obvious names:
Our office, like most modern startup offices, has an open floor plan. In an open floor plan, desks are organised like tables in a college cafeteria. However, instead of food and noise, you have computers, food, and noise.
The noise mandates that you wear headphones while working. Be careful, though. Your choice of headphones reveals a lot about your character:
An assorted collection of desks and chairs adorns our office. People reflected on their lack of fitness and concluded that the blame lay squarely on their choice of furniture. So some people have standing desks — desks so high that you have to stand to use them (or as short folks like myself like to call them, any other desks).
Markets are chockablock with these desk+gym hybrids — standing desks, treadmill desks, cycling desks. This is why I feel bullish about my swimming desk idea — a big water tank with an infinity pool and a computer bolted on one side. Noise cancelling scuba masks, snorkels, and fins come as standard equipment.
My favourite mutant furniture, however, is the “balancing ball chair”. This chair has an exercise ball in place of a seat cushion. Let me repeat that: in place of a seat cushion, this chair has, a giant ball. It’s a great way to lose weight*.

Outside of Chobani, you’d be hard pressed to find a place that talks more about culture than Silicon Valley. We want to create an environment where employees are happy, motivated, healthy, and productive.
Since people are happiest in the company of friends and family, we make sure you have work-life balance. This means you can work-from-home; on weekends. Notable exception is Yahoo. They let you home-from-work by allowing you to bring your infant to the office.
Of course, we realize that not everyone has friends. So we let you bring your dog to work. Our office has a dog too. His name is Moses. He’s sensitive to sunlight.
Unlimited vacation policy is another perk at most good companies. Travelling, after all, is an important part of the human experience. All we ask is that you don’t leave at a time when your presence is sacrosanct for the company. It can be hard to judge that at times so here is a handy table to help you decide when you can go on a vacation:
Most startups provide lunch. Given the wide array of dietary preferences people have in SF, it’s a tricky proposition. It is fairly common to have someone who is a vegetarian, a vegan, on gluten-free, on paleo, and on juice detox in an office of 3 people. Allow me to explain these diets:
Of course, we can’t talk about working in SF without actually talking about how we work.
First rule of working in Silicon Valley — keep your emails short. If the recipient finds them rude, he/she needs a lesson in productivity*. Here is a good email:
Ignore the novella length signature; the brevity rule doesn’t apply to it. Put anything there — legalese, a call to save trees, a motivational quote. Not many people know that Twitter started out as an email service for Silicon Valley professionals but didn’t catch on because it allowed way too many characters.
We don’t have meetings; meetings are to startups what kryptonite is to Spiderman — out of place. So we have all-hands*, one-on-ones, stand-ups, and huddles. Same goes for calls — we don’t make phonecalls. We sync-up, touch-base, or simply, connect. Make sure you set up the right one, or you may give people the impression that you are wasting their vocabulary.
The most sacred psalm of the startup-bible, though, is —
This is why our first hire was a lousy mountain climber.
One last thing — the startup life does not stop at work; it affects your personal life too. E.g., if you work at a startup in San Francisco, you are like the guy selling plastic souvenirs at the Eiffel tower. Everyone at the Eiffel tower is selling plastic souvenirs. So you find yourself having the same conversations with similar people. Here is an example:
Alex: I have a startup. We are Yelp for contractors.Ben: I have a startup too. We are contractors for Yelp.[Pause]Together: Business model … yada yada yada Paul Graham … Series A … lorem ipsum Google sucks.
This, in itself, is not a problem; I enjoy these conversations. The problem is that they often render you incapable of any other forms of communication. E.g.:
Girlfriend’s dad: Great weather today.Ben: Yeah. It’s beautiful.[Pause][Longer pause]Ben: So I see you use an iPhone. Android sucks, huh?
Famous investor Marc Andreessen says:
That explains why software is so shitty. Many things in the world — like Kanye, curling, and kale — are hard to digest.
Still, technology is changing the way we live, the way we love, the way we work. And a lot of that technology is being built here in San Francisco.
If this sounds exciting, come on board; Padlet is hiring, and so are a bazillion other startups. If you don’t live here and can’t relocate, don’t worry; many startups hire remotely. (Reddit isn’t anymore, FYI.)
If you are already a part of this world, why did you just waste 8 minutes? Why aren’t you working? Stop procrastinating and go ship stuff!
Founder, Padlet.
Words etc from the wonderful people at Padlet.

It has been nearly a decade since I last worked for you. I was your production assistant. I picked up your lunch. I ran your errands. I even once spilled black coffee on your white rug. In my time with you I rode rollercoasters, wore a Baby Bjorn mounted hidden camera, discovered paparazzi, laughed my ass off, was brought to tears hearing Annie Lennox warm up, and toured a post Katrina New Orleans. In the years that I worked at The Ellen DeGeneres Show I discovered Los Angeles, met my partner of a decade, and came out of the closet to my parents. The impact this time in my life had on who I am need not be underestimated. Through you, I learned the importance of being my most authentic self. I learned if I lived my truth, society will find a way to embrace me. All of me.
My life has changed immensely since I left my job at The Ellen DeGeneres Show. You see, I had a life changing day a little over 3 years ago. A line in the sand, if you will. A moment. I woke up. Fell out of bed. And into the hospital. When I got out, I needed a cane and some eyeglasses to navigate my newly disabled world.
I do not wish chronic illness on my worst frienemy. My illness and my disability left me scarred and traumatized. It wasn’t a graceful process. But amazingly enough, it is probably best thing that’s ever happened to me. Along with my Idiopathic Neuropathy diagnosis came the gift of advocacy. I now have a point of view. A change I wish to see in the world. A deep and insatiable desire to create inclusion in the highly exclusive world of fashion. I call my idea ‘Inclusive Retail’. I live, eat and breathe Inclusive Retail every moment of every day (seriously, just ask my Facebook friends). I do not believe inclusion for ‘other’ bodies will be achieved until ‘other’ bodies are seen as consumers. Who are marketed to. And designed for. Over the weekend, ol’ bossy pants suddenly popped up in my new world. And it’s a bit startling. I’m not so sure how to proceed.
So I’m going to do what I have learned to do with my doctors, and I’m just going to be honest about the discomfort of it. People have recently started asking if I have reached out, asking you to sell an inclusive product in your new ED by Ellen line. And I have said that I had not. Reaching out would force me to look back at a life I no longer recognize as my own. Plus, after a long and ultimately unsuccessful two year pursuit of J. Crew, I didn’t want to be let down yet again. But upon discovering your new model Kayla, a 9 year old with Down syndrome, I can’t help but think… what if?
Do you know how difficult it is for children and adults with Down syndrome to find garments that fit? Would you let me introduce you to two companies; Downs Design Dreams and Runway of Dreams? Would you consider collaborating with them, ultimately creating a beautiful ED by Ellen product for Kayla and her peers? Did you know you could be the first? You could be the first mainstream fashion brand to make a product for someone with a disability. You could be that person.

Downs Design Dreams and Runway of Dreams could help you make a garment for someone with Down syndrome. They are filling the gap created by Gap and other global retailers. Right now, these bodies have no options. The bodies your ED by Ellen line sees as beautiful. The bodies that your ED by Ellen line aims to empower. Features of pants for a Down syndrome body include high back rises, a tapered knee for short femurs, extra room in thighs and bottom, and the most important… sensory & motor skill friendly features (no buttons, zipper or tags, soft stretchy material and a full elastic waistband). Imagine how cute a pair of ED by Ellen joggers for children with Down syndrome could be.
Karen Bowersox, the founder of Downs Designs Dreams created a special feature for her jeans, something so thoughtful that I’d prefer to let her explain:
The way I see it, if you make one product, your influence might urge the next company to make another product. And through this new trend, instead of all the products being made by one brand, every brand could carry one or a few products. Think of the possibilities. Imagine some Levis Wheelchair Jeans. And a cane at J. Crew. And a Beats by Dre hearing aid. And a wheelchair by BMW (I mean, Jeep makes a stroller). The list goes on and on. And the entire trend could be traced back to you and that one product. That you made for your adorable 9 year old model Kayla.
Mindy Scheier of Runway of Dreams thinks it’s great that you’re featuring a model with a disability. But she won’t find it relevant until the insides match the outsides. Runway of Dreams is a non-profit organization that works with mainstream brands and retailers to create adaptable clothing. Imagine a Runway of Dreams for ED by Ellen line where the clothing fits and the child can dress his or herself.
Inclusive Retail feels so obvious to me. Why aren’t products for ‘other’ bodies a natural order of the world? Why would society exclude people who just want to be included? I mean, wasn’t it you that said “I’m a person with compassion. I care passionately about equal rights. I care about human rights”? Please help me right this wrong.
So Ellen, if it is you, if you are the person who will help me bring Inclusive Retail to life, I pre-wrote a Tweet for you. “Dear @elizejackson, Yes. I am that person. #InclusiveRetail”
Thanks and Best,
Liz Jackson, The Girl with the Purple Cane

If you’re not Ellen but you read this letter and agree, will you please click on the little heart button below. Also, will you consider sharing on Facebook and Twitter? I need your help. We ‘others’ need your help. Thank you.
I write about the intersection of disability and style. I love beautiful products.
Share your story. Express yourself. All submissions welcome. thegirlwiththepurplecane [at] gmail

One of the themes we’re exploring at the Next:Economy summit is the way that networks trump traditional forms of corporate organization, and how they are changing traditional ways of managing that organization. Uber and Airbnb are textbook examples of this trend. Uber has ambitious plans to manage hundreds of thousands — eventually even millions — of independent drivers with a small core of employees building a technology platform that manages those workers. Airbnb is on track to have more rooms on offer than large hotel chains, with under a thousand employees.
Esko Kilpi beautifully described the power of networks in an essay on Medium, “The Future of Firms,” reflecting on economist Ronald Coase’s theory of 20th century business organization. He wrote:
Of course, networks have always been a part of business. An automaker is not made up of just its industrial workers and its managers, but also of its network of parts suppliers and auto dealerships and ad agencies. Even its shareholders are a network that supports its capital needs. Similarly, large retailers are aggregation points for a network of suppliers, logistics companies, and other suppliers. Fast food vendors like McDonalds and Subway aggregate a network of franchisees. The entire film and TV industry consists of a small core of full time workers and a large network of temporary on-demand workers. This is also true of publishing and other media companies. My own company, O’Reilly Media, publishes books, puts on events, and delivers online learning with a full-time staff of five hundred and an extended family of tens of thousands of contributors — authors, conference presenters, technology advisers, and other partners.
But the Internet takes the networked firm to a new level. Google, the company that ended up as the prime gateway to the World Wide Web, provides access to a universe of content that it doesn’t own yet has become the largest media company in the world. 13–24 years olds already watch more video on YouTube, much of it user-contributed, than they watch on television. And Amazon just surpassed WalMart as the world’s most valuable retailer by offering virtually unlimited selection, including marketplace items from ordinary individuals and small businesses.
On-demand companies like Uber and Airbnb are only the latest development in an ongoing transformation of business by the Internet. In addition to discussing these latest entrants, we’ll take a look at what we learn from the evolution of Internet e-commerce and content marketplaces. Then we’ll try to tease out some best practices of Internet-era platforms and marketplaces.
Consider the evolution of the retail marketplace as exemplified first by chain stores, and then by Internet retailers like Amazon, which have largely replaced a network of small local businesses that delivered goods through retail storefronts. Cost efficiencies led to lower prices and greater selection, drawing more consumers, which in turn gave more purchasing power to larger retailers, allowing them to lower prices further and to crush rivals in a self-reinforcing cycle. National marketing of these advantages led to the rise of familiar chains.
But the Internet added even more leverage, reducing the need to invest in real estate, reaching customers who were not physically close to prime locations, and building in new habits of customer loyalty and instant gratification. With delivery now same day in many locations, anything you need is only a few clicks away.
Internet retailers like Amazon were also able to offer even larger selections of products, aggregating offerings not just from a carefully chosen network of suppliers, but opening up self-service marketplaces in which anyone can offer products. Years ago, Clay Shirky described the move from “filter, then publish” to “publish, then filter” as one of the key advantages brought by the Internet to publishing, but the lesson applies to virtually every Internet marketplace. It is fundamentally an open-ended network in which filtering and curation (otherwise known as “management”) happens largely after the fact.
But that’s not all. While large physical retailers cut costs by eliminating knowledgeable workers, using lower prices and greater selection to hedge against worse customer service (compare an old time hardware store with a chain like Home Depot or Lowe’s), online retailers did not make these same tradeoffs. Instead of eliminating knowledgeable workers, they replaced them with software.
Even though there are several orders of magnitude more products than in physical stores, you don’t need a salesperson to help you find the right product on Amazon — a search engine helps you find it. You don’t need a salesperson to help you understand which product is the best — Amazon has built software that lets customers rate the products and write reviews to tell you which are best, and then feeds that reputation information into their search engine so that the best products naturally come out on top. You don’t need a cashier to help you check out — software lets you do that yourself.


Request an invitation to the Next:Economy Summit to learn more about the evolution of 21st century business.

One way to think about the new generation of on-demand companies, such as Uber, Lyft, and Airbnb, is that they are networked platforms for physical world services, which are bringing fragmented industries into the 21st century in the same way that ecommerce has transformed retail.
Let’s start by taking a closer look at the industry in which Uber and Lyft operate.
The coordination costs of the taxicab business have generally kept it local. According to the Taxicab, Limousine and ParaTransit Association, the US taxi industry consists of approximately 6,300 companies operating 171,000 taxicabs and other vehicles. More than 80% of these are small companies operating anywhere between one and 50 taxis. Only 6% of these companies have more than 100 taxicabs. Only in the largest of these companies do multiple drivers use the same taxicab, with regular shifts. 85% of taxi and limousine drivers are independent contractors. In many cases, the taxi driver pays a rental fee (typically $120/$130 per day) to the owner of the cab (who in turn pays a dispatch and branding fee to the branded dispatch service) and keeps what he or she makes after paying that daily cost. The total number of cabs is limited by government-granted licenses, sometimes called medallions.
When you as a customer see a branded taxicab, you are seeing the brand not of the medallion owner (who may be a small business of as little as a single cab) but of the dispatch company. Depending on the size of the city, that brand may be sublicensed to dozens or even hundreds of smaller companies. This fragmented industry provides work not just for drivers but for managers, dispatchers, maintenance workers, and bookkeepers. The TLPA estimates that the industry employs a total of 350,000 people, which works out to approximately two jobs per taxicab. Since relatively few taxicabs are “double shifted” (these are often in the largest, densest locations, where it makes sense for the companies to own the cab and hire the driver as a full time employee), that suggests that half of those employed in the industry are in secondary support roles. These are the jobs that are being replaced by the efficient new platforms. Functions like auto maintenance still have to be performed, so those jobs remain. Jobs that are lost to automation are equivalent to the kinds of losses that came to bank tellers and their managers with the introduction of the ATM.
Technology is leading to a fundamental restructuring of the taxi and limousine industry from one of a network of small firms to a network of individuals, replacing many middlemen in the taxi business with software, using the freed up resources to put more drivers on the road.
Uber and Lyft use algorithms, GPS, and smartphone apps to coordinate driver and passenger. The extraordinary soon becomes commonplace, so we forget how our first ride was a magical user experience. That magic can lead us to overlook the fact that, at bottom, Uber and Lyft provide dispatch and branding services much like existing taxi companies, only more efficiently. And like the existing taxi industry, they essentially subcontract the job of transport — except in this case, they subcontract to individuals rather than to smaller businesses, and take a percentage of the revenue rather than charging a daily rental fee for the use of a branded taxicab.
These firms use technology to eliminate the jobs of what used to be an enormous hierarchy of managers (or a hierarchy of individual firms acting as suppliers), replacing them with a relatively flat network managed by algorithms, network-based reputation systems, and marketplace dynamics. These firms also rely on their network of customers to police the quality of their service. Lyft even uses its network of top-rated drivers to onboard new drivers, outsourcing what once was a crucial function of management.
It’s useful to call out some specific features of the new model.

In my initial post, The WTF Economy, I wrote:
It would have lacked the immediate punch, but I could also have written:
The reason: Subway owns no restaurants, while McDonalds owns 20% of its restaurants, with the remaining 80% franchised. (Employment across both owned and franchised restaurants at McDonalds is over 1.9 million.)
In many ways, Uber and Airbnb represent a 21st century update of the franchising model. In franchising, the parent company brands and markets the product, sets standards for producing it, and charges a licensing fee and receives a percentage of revenue from each of its franchisees.
The difference is that technology radically lowers the barriers to being a franchisee. In many ways, you can call the modern trend “the franchise of one.” The smallest unit of franchising in the past was a small business, with all the overhead that implies: real estate, equipment, uniforms, employees (including managers), and so on. Today, the franchise can be a single individual, and that individual can work only part time, so it’s really “the franchise of one or even less!”
Branding and advertising are much less necessary because the app itself becomes a customer habit that delivers business. There are little or no capital requirements, workers can schedule their own time, and turn their own under-utilized personal assets (a car, a house, or other equipment) into business assets. In her book Peers Inc, Robin Chase refers to this as “excess capacity.”
This is exactly the dynamic that Kilpi references when he describes how the radically lower transaction costs of networks give them advantage over traditional firms.
Though the details of the taxi industry differ from the hotel industry, the same dynamic applies to another great success story of the On-demand economy, Airbnb. Like Uber and Lyft, Airbnb uses technology to make excess capacity available in locations that were otherwise extremely poorly served. Even in great cities, hotels are available only in some neighborhoods, and completely unavailable in others. By contrast, Airbnbs can be found anywhere that there is demand.
A small personal anecdote: I recently got married in Fort Tryon Park in New York City, near the Cloisters. The nearest hotel is 1.5 miles away, and the closest “nice” hotel 3.8 miles, yet my fiance and I were able to walk to our wedding site from a beautiful, comfortable Airbnb facing the park and just 5 minutes away. Many of our guests stayed locally as well.
As with Uber and Lyft, we see that the granular nature of supply (the franchise of one, or even less than one) makes it easy for more natural market mechanisms to come into play. People can offer a resource that they already own, testing the market to see if there is demand and at what price. If they are satisfied with the transaction, they can continue to offer that resource. More supply will come on stream to match demand in highly desirable locations.
There are some interesting lessons, though, about the evolution of the supply network. While Airbnb began as a network of properties offered solely by individuals, already 40% of Airbnb properties are now offered by hosts who own more than one property. There are also anecdotal reports that small companies owning multiple cars are starting to be part of the Uber network.
The evolution of Airbnb’s network echoes the evolution of the World Wide Web and the media platform businesses that grew up on it, such as Yahoo, Google, YouTube, and Facebook.
The World Wide Web began as a peer-to-peer network of individuals who were both providing and consuming content. Yet twenty five years on, the World Wide Web is dominated by the media presence of large companies, though there is still plenty of room for individuals, mid-sized companies, and aggregators of smaller companies and individuals. While the platform itself began in decentralized fashion, its growth in complexity led to increasing centralization of power. Everyone started out with an equal chance at visibility, but over time, mechanisms were invented to navigate the complexity: first directories, then search engines.
Eventually, there grew up a rich ecosystem of intermediaries, including, at the top of the food chain, first Yahoo! then Google and their various competitors, but also content aggregators of various sizes and types, such as the Huffington Post and Buzzfeed, as well as various companies, from Search Engine Optimizers to advertising firms like DoubleClick and Aquantive and content delivery firms like Akamai and Fastly, who help other firms optimize their performance in the marketplace.
Later media networks such as YouTube, Facebook, and the Apple App Store bypassed this evolution and began as centralized portals, but even there, you see some of the same elements. In each case, the marketplace was at first supplied by small individual contributors, but eventually, larger players — companies, brands, and superstars — come to dominate.
In addition, the central player begins by feeding its network of suppliers, but eventually begins to compete with it. In its early years, Google provided no content of its own, simply sending customers off to the best independent websites. But over time, more and more types of content are offered directly by Google. Amazon began simply as a marketplace for publishers; eventually, they became a publisher. Over time, as networks reach monopoly or near-monopoly status, they must wrestle with the issue of how to create more value than they capture — how much value to take out of the ecosystem, versus how much they must leave for other players in order for the marketplace to continue to thrive.
I believe we will see some of these same dynamics play out in the new networked platforms for physical world services, such as Uber, Lyft, and Airbnb. Successful individuals build small companies, and some of the small companies turn into big ones. Eventually, existing companies join the platform. By this logic, I expect to see large hotel chains offering rooms on Airbnb, and existing taxi companies affiliating with Uber and Lyft. To optimize their success, these platforms will need to make it possible for many kinds of participants in the marketplace to succeed.

Here are some key lessons for companies wanting to emulate the success of Internet marketplaces like Amazon, Google, Uber, and Airbnb:
Join the discussion. What do you think are the best practices of networked businesses? What principles will drive the success of these businesses in the future? What should they watch out for?
Founder and CEO, O'Reilly Media. Watching the alpha geeks, sharing their stories, helping the future unfold.
How work, business and society face massive, technology-driven change. Curated by Tim O’Reilly, Steven Levy and Lauren Smiley, in conjunction with the Next: Economy Summit coming to San Francisco in November.
A tale of differing visions
So this is it. Here we are. The community is divided and Bitcoin is forking: both the software and, perhaps, the block chain too. The two sides of the split are Bitcoin Core and a slight variant of the same program, called Bitcoin XT. As of August 15th, there is now a full release available.
Such a fork has never happened before. I want to explain things from the perspective of the Bitcoin XT developers: let it not be said there was insufficient communication.
Bitcoin forking is a topic that may interest many people, so this article is meant for a general audience. It doesn’t assume previous knowledge of the debate.
The founding vision for Bitcoin was carefully laid out by Satoshi, and has always been crystal clear. This dispute is about growth. In 2008 he responded to the first question ever asked about Bitcoin’s design with a simple statement:
He was in many ways more blasé about scaling Bitcoin up than any of us have ever been. He planned for Bitcoin to become popular right from the start, and knew that success would change how people used his system. In 2010 he said this:
In 2011 I fleshed out Satoshi’s scaling intuitions with a series of calculations: what if Bitcoin became so popular it replaced VISA completely? The answer was that his plan is credible — you’d never need more than a single computer, even with such a large amount of traffic. I also implemented the mode he talked about, as he left before finishing the work.
Satoshi’s plan brought us all together. It changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of us across the globe. Some of us quit our jobs, others devoted their spare time to the project, still others founded companies and even moved across the world. It’s the idea of ordinary people paying each other via a block chain that created and united this global community.
That’s the vision I signed up for. That’s the vision Gavin Andresen signed up for. That’s the vision so many developers and startup founders and evangelists and users around the world signed up for.
That vision is now in jeopardy. In recent months it’s become clear that a small group of people have a radically different plan for Bitcoin. These people have never really been comfortable with Satoshi’s intentions because they fear success — what if technology never improved, what if people couldn’t run Bitcoin on their home computers any more? Would that not somehow make Bitcoin less peer-to-peer, and more like banking? What if people start to rely on Bitcoin even though it’s imperfect?
So now Satoshi is gone they want to make drastic changes — networks of payment routing hubs, sharp rises in fees, ending support for mobile P2P wallets, giving up on unconfirmed transactions, and many other things that never appeared in any of our project’s founding documents.
The so-called “Lightning network” that is being pushed as an alternative to Satoshi’s design does not exist. The paper describing it was only published earlier this year. If implemented, it would represent a vast departure from the Bitcoin we all know and love. To pick just one difference amongst many, Bitcoin addresses wouldn’t work. What they’d be replaced with has not been worked out (because nobody knows). There are many other surprising gotchas, which I published an article about. It’s deeply unclear that whatever is finally produced would be better than the Bitcoin we have now.
In theory, none of this should be a problem. The Lightning Network builds on top of the block chain but needs only fairly trivial upgrades to it for best functioning. So people who would like to explore this direction are free to do so. If what they built worked better than plain vanilla Bitcoin then the market should prefer payments being made that way, and if so … fair play to them! Bitcoin’s current design is unlikely to be the last word in making payments. It’s reasonable to think that one day it will be outcompeted or augmented by something else.
But the system we have today works. It has an ecosystem, it has developers. It has exchanges and wallets and people buying and selling and ATMs and books and apps and conferences and a large base of people who have learned how it works.
Would people decide to migrate to a radically different system, if given a free choice?
We don’t know, and the people pushing for these things don’t want to let the market decide. This is what’s gone wrong.
A long time ago, Satoshi put in place a temporary kludge: he limited the size of each block to one megabyte. He did this in order to keep the block chain small in the early days, until what we now call SPV wallets were built (‘client only mode’). As seen in the quote above, it was never meant to be permanent and he talked about phasing it out when the time came. In the end it wasn’t needed — I wrote the first SPV implementation in 2011 and with my esteemed colleague Andreas Schildbach, together we built the first and still most popular Android wallet. Since then SPV wallets have been made for every platform. So Satoshi’s reason for the temporary limit has been resolved a long time ago.
As Bitcoin has grown, so have the blocks. Reasonable traffic projections indicate that as Bitcoin spreads via word of mouth, we will reach the limit of the current system some time next year, or by 2017 at the absolute latest. And another bubble or press cycle could push us over the limit before even that. The result might not be pretty.
So it is now time to raise the limit, or remove it entirely. That was always the plan. This is where the problem starts: those who don’t want to see Bitcoin scale up as Satoshi intended have decided to stall the process of doing so. They see a golden, one-time opportunity to forcibly divert Bitcoin from its intended path and onto a wildly different technical trajectory. They don’t know exactly what the alternative design will be, and certainly haven’t built it — but that doesn’t matter. They think that by blocking the blockchain’s growth they can “incentivise” (i.e. force) the Bitcoin community to switch to something different, something more in line with their personal technical tastes.
So far I have not elaborated much on these people’s arguments, or who they are. I thought long and hard about naming names in this article, but in the end it seemed unproductive. Those who care enough to follow this drama already know, and those who don’t wouldn’t recognise the people involved anyway.
Suffice it to say they are a handful of people who either have commit access to the Bitcoin Core source repository, work for people who do, people who have been persuaded by their arguments, and a few others who arrived at similar conclusions on their own.
So let us instead discuss those arguments. There have been many. As each one came up, Gavin and myself have written articles analysing them and rebutting them. Sometimes the answers were common sense, other times they were deeper and required more work, like doing network simulations.
The best repository to learn about these arguments is Gavin’s blog. I wish I could link you to a similar collection of rebuttal’s to Gavin’s writings, but there isn’t one.
To summarise a long and exhausting debate, the objections fall into a few different groups:
There are others: if your favourite objection isn’t listed above, go read Gavin’s blog to find it.
The first point might be true one day — it’s tough to compare Bitcoin to theoretical systems which exist only on paper. But nobody who looked at any alternative designs on the table think they they could be implemented within the 12 months we probably have before the Bitcoin network runs out of capacity (example, see last paragraph, another example) ….. even assuming they were better. It is an example of the Nirvana Fallacy:
The second objection is too vague to answer; there are credible reasons to believe that a full upgrade of every Bitcoin node might take a year, and actually running out of capacity would cause serious disruption. We should really have started before now. There are two people on the bitcoin-development mailing list with professional capacity planning experience and both think the process must start right now. Demanding it be delayed until some unspecified future date is not sound engineering.
The final point is the most troublesome and heated by far. It is based in two assumptions:
It would be great if Bitcoin was so compelling that demand for it was infinite: I could just stop improving my software and wait for the rising price to make me rich. Back here in reality Bitcoin exists in a competitive marketplace. Growth is not a god-given right. Every user we win takes effort, every person persuaded takes time. Bitcoin is currently growing, but only at a gentle pace. I wish I could confidently say the cost of running a full Bitcoin node will go up in future: that would imply our success is outstripping the combined efforts of the entire hardware industry. That industry is astonishing: in 2007 the iPhone launched to the world, it cost $500. Just 7 years later the Forme P9 smartphone launched for $30. It matches every feature the iPhone had and then goes significantly beyond.
With the second assumption, we reach the hard core of this debate: Should Bitcoin grow, even if the network changes its structure as a result?
The founder of the project gave a clear answer to this question — YES
We have been working on this plan ever since. To try and change that answer to “no” not only violates the Bitcoin social contract, but goes against the wishes of many, many people in the Bitcoin community.
Those who really believe that an über-niche currency is better should create an alt coin with a limited size block chain as part of the founding vision. Not try and convert Bitcoin into one by exploiting the casual nature of an old, quick kludge.
Why can this dispute not be resolved in some more civilised manner than an outright split?
Put simply, the decision making process in Bitcoin Core has broken.
In theory, like almost all open source projects, Core has a “maintainer”. The job of a maintainer is to shepherd the project and make decisions about what goes in and what doesn’t. The maintainer is the boss. A good maintainer gathers feedback, weighs arguments and then makes decisions. But in the case of Bitcoin Core the block size debate has been allowed to drag on for years.
The problem is that any change, no matter how obvious, can be nixed entirely if it becomes “controversial”, meaning another person with commit access objects. As there are five committers and many other non-committers who can also make changes “controversial” this is a recipe for deadlock. The fact that the block size was never meant to be permanent has ceased to matter: the fact that removing it is debated, is, by itself, enough to ensure it will not happen. Like a committee with no chairman, the meeting never ends. To quote the committer who has pushed hardest for stasis, “Bitcoin needs a leader like a fish needs a bicycle”.
Compounding this problem is an absolute disinterest in listening to the wider community.
Raising the block size is supported by, amongst others:
This list is far from complete. Many other key players in the ecosystem haven’t commented publicly, but have expressed support to Gavin and myself in private.
So you can see that this isn’t some strange campaign of conquest by Gavin and myself. If we weren’t preparing for this change, others would.
How did those pushing for 1mb blocks respond to all these people?
They didn’t, because they never asked for their views at all. To quote one influential member of the Bitcoin Core community:
Companies represent many of Bitcoin’s most passionate, devoted and technical people. They provide critical infrastructure. Yet the views of the people who build them are considered “misleading to the sense of consensus”.
What about wallet developers? They are the people most exposed to the needs of day to day users.
Never asked. When they spoke up anyway, it made no difference; their views are considered irrelevant.
That isn’t surprising: this group measures the relevance of someone’s opinions by how many commits to Core they have. It’s become clearer and clearer that the “consensus” that’s so often talked about in the Bitcoin Core community really means the views of a tiny handful of people, regardless of what anyone else in the wider community might think, how much work they have done, or how many users their products have.
Put another way, “developer consensus” is marketing, wool pulled over the eyes of Bitcoin users to blind them from the truth: just two or three people acting in concert can break Bitcoin in whatever way they see fit.
Do they even recognise that a large number of critical people disagree? No. Quoting one of the committers again:
This can only be true if you classify vast numbers of the engineers building the Bitcoin ecosystem as “non technical”.
Clearly, there is a serious problem here. Communication has broken down, both sides feel they are vigorously defending decentralisation and the One True Bitcoin Vision. The community is divided.
This leaves one last mechanism for resolving the dispute. We can make a modified version of the software, and put it to a vote of miners via the usual chain fork logic used for upgrades. If a majority upgrade to the new version and produce a larger than 1mb block, the minority would reject it and be put onto a parallel block chain. To get back in sync with the rest of the network they would then have to adopt the fork, clearly resolving the system in favour. If the majority never upgrade, the fork would never happen and the 1mb limit would be hit.
It would seem like all participants should support such a move: clearly, consensus cannot be reached via the usual mechanisms and thus putting it to something resembling a vote should look like a good way to make progress.
Here we come to the last and most fatal source of disagreement.
Of the 5 Bitcoin Core committers, Gavin and Jeff support a fork but the other three appear to believe that any controversial hard fork is unthinkable, madness, reckless, should never ever happen and doing it would seriously harm Bitcoin, perhaps even fatally. If any of them are in favour of resolving via a fork, I haven’t seen them express that anywhere.
We strongly disagree with this assessment. We don’t think the sky will fall if the chain forks. We think people on the small-blocks side of the chain will upgrade and continue on the bigger-blocks side. There will be plenty of time for them to know about the change and prepare. But of course, this has made no difference to the belief of the Bitcoin Core developers who dislike hard forks. They are steadfastly against.
In short, they believe that the only mechanism that Bitcoin has to keep them in check should never be used.
I don’t think they really mean it to come across this way, but it does. Their view is that there shouldn’t be any alternative to their decisions. That anything they object to, for whatever reason, is killed forever … and that Bitcoin is thus their toy to do with as they please.
This state of affairs cannot go on. The Bitcoin Core project has shown it cannot reform and so it must be abandoned.
That is why Bitcoin has forked.
We hope everyone understands.
Open minded reading
Amazon isn’t the only company burning out their employees with unsustainable expectations. Let’s break the cycle.
Update: Want to achieve better work-life balance within your own team? Check out “Less is more: leading your team to better results through work-life balance” on the Asana blog.
— — —
Last week, I spoke to an ambitious group of high school students at SPARC in Berkeley. Several of them asked me about things I wish I had done or learned earlier in life, or regrets I had from earlier in my career. Again and again, I came back to the idea that I wish I had lived my life differently.
I wish I had slept more hours, and exercised regularly. I wish I had made better decisions about what to eat or drink — at times I consumed more soda and energy drinks than water. I wish I had made more time for other experiences that helped me grow incredibly quickly once I gave them a chance.
You might think: but if you had prioritized those things, wouldn’t your contributions have been reduced? Would Facebook have been less successful?
Actually, I believe I would have been more effective: a better leader and a more focused employee. I would have had fewer panic attacks, and acute health problems — like throwing out my back regularly in my early 20s. I would have picked fewer petty fights with my peers in the organization, because I would have been generally more centered and self-reflective. I would have been less frustrated and resentful when things went wrong, and required me to put in even more hours to deal with a local crisis. In short, I would have had more energy and spent it in smarter ways… AND I would have been happier. That’s why this is a true regret for me: I don’t feel like I chose between two worthy outcomes. No, I made a foolish sacrifice on both sides.
This week, the tech industry has been passionately debating a recent New York Times article about Amazon’s intense work culture. Many found the article one-sided, using dramatic anecdotes to caricature a culture built around passion and intensity, while some insiders have risen to publicly defend the company. However, as far as I can tell, most people do not contest that the culture is intense and people do work really hard at Amazon. Fundamentally, this is a familiar part of tech culture: at high performing companies, employees work extremely hard, to an extent that is unsustainable for most people.
But it doesn’t have to be this way.
Many people believe that weekends and the 40-hour workweek are some sort of great compromise between capitalism and hedonism, but that’s not historically accurate. They are actually the carefully considered outcome of profit-maximizing research by Henry Ford in the early part of the 20th century. He discovered that you could actually get more output out of people by having them work fewer days and fewer hours. Since then, other researchers have continued to study this phenomenon, including in more modern industries like game development.
The research is clear: beyond ~40–50 hours per week, the marginal returns from additional work decrease rapidly and quickly become negative. We have also demonstrated that though you can get more output for a few weeks during “crunch time” you still ultimately pay for it later when people inevitably need to recover. If you try to sustain crunch time for longer than that, you are merely creating the illusion of increased velocity. This is true at multiple levels of abstraction: the hours worked per week, the number of consecutive minutes of focus vs. rest time in a given session, and the amount of vacation days you take in a year.
Rest matters.
So it is with deep sadness that I observe the current culture of intensity in the tech industry. My intellectual conclusion is that these companies are both destroying the personal lives of their employees and getting nothing in return. A candidate recently deciding between Asana and another fast growing company told me that the other team starts their dinners at 830pm to encourage people to stay late (he’s starting here in a few weeks). I also hear young developers frequently brag about “48 hour” coding sprints. This kind of attitude not only hurts young workers who are willing to “step up” to the expectation, but facilitates ageism and sexism by indirectly discriminating against people who cannot maintain that kind of schedule.
Why are companies doing this? It must be some combination of 1/ not knowing the research 2/ believing the research is somehow flawed or doesn’t apply to them (they’re wrong) or 3/ understanding that many people see these cultural artifacts as a signal about the intensity and passion of the team. I believe it is a combination of all three factors, and the third one resonates particularly strongly with me. We’ve worked hard to build a culture at Asana where people don’t work too hard, but we sometimes have candidates tell us they are worried that means we don’t move fast enough, or have enough urgency. I’m not sure what I would do if I thought these values were actually in conflict, but fortunately they are not. We get to encourage a healthy work-life balance in the cold, hard pursuit of profit. We are maximizing our velocity and our happiness at the same time.
As an industry, we are falling short of our potential. We could be accomplishing more, and we could be providing a better life for all of the people who work in technology. If you’re going to devote the best years of your life to work, do so intentionally. You can do great things AND live your life well. You can have it all, and science says you should.
Note: I’ve written this from the perspective of the tech industry, since that’s my perspective, but the pattern definitely exists prominently in other industries, and in companies across all industries.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
“The best things we know and love started as tiny things.” — Joel Gascoigne
Buffer’s CEO, Joel, wrote a post not too long ago about the importance of starting small with new projects. He makes some great points about how easy it is to see the finished product of someone else’s hard work and forget about how long it took them to get to that point:
“It’s difficult to understand how the evolutionary process of products and brands contributes and is vital to what they are today.”
Joel goes on to say that success is more likely when we execute on small projects. Start small and let them grow, essentially.
To give us a little insight into just how simple some of the today’s juggernaut web companies were when they started out, I thought it would be fun to do some time traveling in the Wayback Machine. Design can’t tell us everything about what’s happening behind the scenes at a company, but it’s one way to visualize the progress of a product or service over time. Plus, each of these companies’ founders have some useful advice on why they started small and how it helped them grow into the successes they are today.
So let’s take a look at how these major companies evolved from their humble beginnings:

“I’m here to build something for the long-term. Anything else is a distraction.” — Mark Zuckerberg
Zuckerberg’s vision for Facebook is a big one: to make the world more socially connected. Although he started with a small solution to connect college students, Facebook has grown into one of the biggest, most popular social networks alive today, and continues to grow because he’s committed to building out the company over time:
“I know it sounds corny, but I’d love to improve people’s lives, especially socially… Making the world more open is not an overnight thing. It’s a ten-to-fifteen-year thing.”
Today, Facebook is bigger and more complicated than it was to start with, but Zuckerberg stays committed to his vision:
“A lot of founding principles of Facebook are that if people have access to more information and are more connected, it will make the world better; people will have more understanding, more empathy. That’s the guiding principle for me. On hard days, I really just step back, and that’s the thing that keeps me going.”


“When Sergey and I founded Google, we hoped, but did not expect, it would reach its current size and influence. Our intense and enduring interest was to objectively help people find information efficiently.” — Larry Page
Google’s design has remained sparse over the years, even as the company has expanded and added more services like Maps, YouTube, Gmail and Drive. When you hit Google.com today, it’s still clear what one thing Google is focused on: finding information.
Tumblr’s founder David Karp created the service to fill a need he had. Blogging was becoming more popular but it was mainly focused on writing — something Karp rightly assumed that not everyone wanted to do.
“You get that big empty box, and it demands that you come up with like a witty headline that convinces people to click over and care about your post, it demands several paragraphs of nicely formatted HTML with little aligned images, and a real editorial voice, real writing.” — David Karp
Today, Karp attributes Tumblr’s success — with its vision of “more stuff” including visuals like photos and GIFs — to continuing the strong focus of building something his team loves and uses:
“I think something that is still very true of Tumblr today is it is still a product our team builds for ourselves first and foremost and something we’re excited to use every day, and we spend hours every day using. I’d like to believe that not only comes through in the product, but that it’s kept us close to what Tumblr is really about, kept us from straying too far from that, and that I think kept it true to the original vision.”

The YouTube team is committed to testing their assumptions and building based on how the community engages with their product, based on previous experience:
“We had a lot of our own ideas about how the service would evolve. Coming from PayPal and eBay, we saw YouTube as a powerful way to add video to auctions, but we didn’t see anyone using our product that way, so we didn’t add features to support it.” — Chad Hurley
Co-founder Chad Hurley advises other startup founders to test their assumptions and listen to users, rather than jumping into a big product roadmap from the beginning, based soley on your own vision:

Yahoo!, like most of these companies, started out as a very small project to solve a specific problem: the founders had trouble digging up websites they wanted to revisit later, so they started cataloging the web.
“We called it ‘Jerry’s Guide to the World Wide Web.’ Before we knew it, people from all over the world were using this database that we created.” — Jerry Yang
From his experience at Yahoo!, co-founder Jerry Yang suggests being prepared for scaling up your business:


“We innovate by starting with the customer and working backwards. That becomes the touchstone for how we invent.” — Jeff Bezos
Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, insists that putting customers first since the beginning has been — and continues to be — the best competitive advantage Amazon has.
Since Amazon’s humble beginning as an online bookstore, it’s become a huge online retailer, selling almost everything. But even with huge growth, Bezos remains focused on what customers want:
“When [competitors are] in the shower in the morning, they’re thinking about how they’re going to get ahead of one of their top competitors. Here in the shower, we’re thinking about how we are going to invent something on behalf of a customer.”

There are plenty of other examples of starting small. In Joel’s post, he shares the example of Dale Carnegie’s book, How to Win Friends and Influence People, which started out as a short talk and some notes on an index card.
Another example I love is the “email-first startup.” Sunrise is a great example: what started out as a daily email digest is now a full-fledged calendar app for iPhone.
If you liked this post, you might also like The Habits of Successful People: They Have a Growth Mindset and People Don’t Buy Products, They Buy Better Versions of Themselves.
Originally published at blog.bufferapp.com on February 13, 2014.Image credits: Complex, Wayback Machine, Toby Bradbury
Interested in social media tips & strategies that set you up for success?

25 social media strategies and video tips, delivered daily
Buffer helps you share to Twitter, Facebook, Pinterest, LinkedIn & more. We're a team of 30+ spread across the world. We're hiring! http://buffer.com/journey
Sharing our ideas and experiences


Every early stage startup has doubters, naysayers, and skeptics. These people will tell you that you can’t do it, that you shouldn’t do it, that you are wasting your time. They will tell you that your idea is stupid and that you are burning your investor’s money.
Can you blame them? Let’s be honest here, when you first heard of Twitter, could you have guessed that it would be a $20B public company? Or even better, what if two students pitched you on the 17th search engine, when clearly you already knew that Yahoo cornered that market.
Add to this, that as an entrepreneur, you are filled with your own self-doubt. You will question why you left your safe job and risked everything for this idea that no one believes in except for you.
When that time comes, read this. Read this as a reminder that even the billon-dollar unicorns started off as fragile little babies.
To bring this point home, check out these amazing comment threads we found across the web.
On July 15, 2006, Techcrunch published a story about Odeo launching Twitter. The naysayers came out by the hundreds. Here is the headline:

And here are some of the comments. I especially love this first one:
In case you missed it, the commenter insisted on capitalizing NEVER. Classic.
Here’s another, a bit longer.
Although, I will give the commenter credit for claiming Twitter is not focused… which arguably is an accurate assessment even to this day. ;)
One more for good laughs:
That one actually names names (CRV) and ponders if burning money in a big BBQ party would be a better use of their investment.

Founded by an ex-Googler, Instagram actually started as a location-based mobile app. Here is the TechCrunch article (Sept 20, 2010) covering Instagram’s launch:


And here are two comments for your reading pleasure:
Oh man that was a doozy. Can someone please talk to the VCs and make sure they are funding real business models. Thank you.
One more:

Someone is going to make a plugin for cameras that already has filters… yeah they did, it’s called Instagram and it’s a mobile app. Nice one.

I’ve included two TC headlines for Uber. There is enough negative comments to go around and I wanted to give you a taste of how the comments change as the company matures.
Here is the first headline I could find on TechCrunch about UberCab (July 5, 2010) when Ryan Graves was still CEO:

This commenter wants to remind us that Uber’s monopoly is coming to an end (note this comment was made in 2012):

There were a couple other commenters on the above article accusing Uber of being a “fraud” and “complete crap.” They followed up with constructive advice, which is helpful.
Here is another headline, just seven months later:

Check out this beefy comment. We have what seems to be a domain expert:
That commenter walked us through the economics behind the taxi market and why Uber’s valuation is way too high ($60M post). Hold the phones, the taxi busy is very “mom and pop”… can someone call Travis ASAP please.
And one more shorter comment:
Is Uber equivalent to calling a taxi? I wouldn’t know — I’ve never really “called” a taxi but I do use Uber/Lyft almost weekly.


Pinterest launched in March 2010. It closed a round for $10M in mid 2011 and then another larger round for $27M in October, 2011, valuing the company around $200M.

The commenters here aren’t as bearish as they were on the others. Also, TechCrunch was using Facebook commenting system at the time and I suspect this had something to do with it. Here’s a commenter reminding us how “stupid” of an idea Pinterest is and how “gullible” startup VCs are:

Here’s another shorter comment. To this person’s credit, it could be argued that Pinterest is in fact a “sophisticated bookmarking system.” Nevertheless, it’s a good one at that.


So there you have it folks — four awesome startups that got trolled on their launch day. Although we can easily look back and laugh at these comments, there are hundreds of other startups that didn’t have it so easy.
Surely there is a lesson here. What you need to remind yourself of — and what is most important here — is that as long as you follow your passion, trust your gut, and work your ass off, the end will likely justify the means. Ignore the haters and do you. Do you. Follow your heart, follow your passion. Focus on your product and your brand advocates.

Like this post? Click ‘recommend’ below or throw me a tweet at @benhoffman_.
Thank you @danscalco for the help & inspiration on this post.
Learn, Teach, Repeat.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
I have a warning for you.
Ten years ago, or even five, this warning would have been simple. Back then, when screenwriters got together to bitch (which was often) it was usually about directors for being bullies, or for trying to steal a shared “Screenplay by” credit, or cutting necessary dialogue, or just plain botching things.
But, that’s not the case anymore.
The sands under all of us have shifted. And today, directors — even the arrogant ones — are running scared like everybody else.
When I started writing there were still a few mavericks out there; a few gunslingers who ran studios.
These were people who went with their guts and would make a movie just because they believed in it.
But that’s not the process anymore.
Today, before a studio chair can green-light a movie, that movie must also be blessed by the head of marketing, the head of foreign sales, and the head of home video.
It must be subjected to a process called “running the numbers,” which means that the movie’s cost — or, downside — is compared against its potential value because of its cast and what it might do in foreign markets.
This process takes into account every variable except the variable which actually matters — the one that can't possibly be gauged by any sort of calculus — which is whether or not the movie’s going to be any good.
And yet the process continues.
There are other challenges too. Ones born of progress itself.
It’s axiomatic now that the technology of movie making has never been greater than it is today, but I don't think any of us can honestly say that movies themselves have never been greater.
These things are not unrelated.
Suppose we were going to shoot a scene in a typical room. We can now, if we want to, add elements to that scene to make it more visually arresting.
We could light the ceiling on fire by using CGI.
We could enhance the experience by projecting it in 3-D.
Does any of this have anything to do with story, or character? No.
But, it would look great in the trailer.
That kind of thinking, the idea that dazzling visuals are enough, has led to a certain kind of movie-making laziness that has not been good for anybody.
Worse, it’s made it tougher and tougher to dazzle the audience because they know out there now that we’re making movies with software instead of cameras.
We’re storytellers, which means we have to do better. Sometimes I think we have to rescue the business from the very people who own it.
The good news is, we can.
Inside every one of you is the flame that has always lit the way in this industry, which is originality — that one spark of an idea, that one archetypal character, story, truth, or world that no one’s ever captured before.
Do you remember the movie WALL-E, the brilliant Pixar film?
He’s in a dangerous world and he’s one of thousands who are supposed to clean it up.
But, there’s something special about WALL-E. He finds this little tiny sprig which might one day become a plant. He guards it, and saves it, and preserves it on the chance that it might some day turn into something beautiful.
Well, Hollywood is that dangerous world and you are WALL-E.
That’s your charge now — greatness.
You have to pursue it every single day in everything you do; in your work ethic, in the way you conduct yourself, in who you choose to do business with.
You are now part of the most collaborative medium anywhere in the world and much of your success in it is going to be determined by how well you listen.
I was very fortunate in that regard. As the child of divorced parents, I learned early how to take two warring factions and make them both feel they had been heard.
This works fantastic in meetings.
You’re going to get a lot of notes in your career. And it’ll be your instinct to resent them. But, I’m telling you now to ignore this instinct.
The fact is that most of the notes you get will be smart and thoughtful.
And all of them — even the bad ones — will teach you something about where you failed to articulate something as clearly as you had it in your head or where something just didn’t make it on the page, where something just didn’t land.
But what will mostly define you more than anything else is what projects you say yes to and what projects you say no to.
Here’s a rule of thumb about that.
If someone offers you a job on a project that has real heat, a star attached to it, or some wonderful pedigree, and you find that you’re not waking up every morning thinking about it, if it’s not living inside of you trying to claw its way out, then don’t write it.
And always remember that if you are inspired we will be too.
The best advice I ever heard about writing came from Paddy Chayefsky — he, of Network and The Hospital. He also wrote Marty. (That’s three Oscars.)
Chayefsky’s advice to writers was simple: Don’t think of it as art, think of it as work.
Because when a writer is stuck and he or she calls in another writer for help, that second writer doesn’t say, “What’s the art problem?”
That second writer says, “What’s not working?” And they get under the hood and fix it together.
That’s most of what you’ll do in your career — work, problem solving. Approach it in that way and then at the end of every day, you’ll at least be able to say, “I did my job today.”
If you’re an artist, it’ll come out as art anyway.
The truth is there are millions of variables that will profoundly affect your career. Variables over which you have zero control.
You have no control over the state of the economy or over the health of our industry.
You have no say in whether or not the DVD business flat-lines, or whether or not the market is suddenly ripe for thrillers or superhero movies or — god help us — romantic comedies.
So maximize that variable.
I take my son to his bus stop every morning at 7:30. I’m at my desk working by 8:00. Somebody feeds me at 1:00 and I’m back at my desk by 1:30, working until 6:00.
I don’t surf the web. I don’t gamble online. I don’t go to the local Starbucks for two hours. I don’t try to seek out old girlfriends on Facebook.
I don’t do anything that requires time. I just work.
I do this because there’s a mountaintop that I’m trying to get to and I’m nowhere near it.
I can see it from here. But, the accomplishments of our greatest writers, that’s the Holy Grail for me.
I want to leave a legacy like they did.
I want to spend a lot of time in tuxedos.
The next time the AFI does a list of the 100 greatest movies of all time, I want my name on one of them, at least.
And I want some day in 2032, for someone to cite one of my movies with the same kind of reverence I have for those movies of the ‘70s.
Luck will not get me there, although I will need plenty of it.
The only thing that will get me there is my willingness to write that 15th draft, or proofread it one more time, or be open to notes from someone who’s smarter than I am.
It may be that I’ll get notes from one of you one day. And I trust that they’ll be good ones.
I’ll leave you with one last thought.
At the Writers’ Guild building on Third and Fairfax there’s a library. In that library you can read any screenplay that you’d ever want to read.
Visit that library. It’s your history up on those shelves; the bar that was set for you by the writers that have preceded you.
Their struggles belong to you now. Cherish them. Learn from them. Let them challenge you to keep getting better.
I wish you nothing but the best.
This is an excerpt from Billy Ray’s keynote speech at the 2012 Academy Nicholl Fellowship awards.
We are The Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences and we champion the power of human imagination.
A conversation about the power of movies
“they said ‘how ya gonna keep your job if ya performance has suffered from low morale’ eem the janitor was dyin”
I got fired two days ago.
It was a slight surprise. I knew it was going to happen, but I didn’t expect for it to happen so soon.
Getting fired was embarrassing. I have never been fired before! Being asked to turn in my key and access card, and that they would pack up and mail me my stuff... Having my big boss escort me to my cubicle to make sure I wouldn’t steal any paperclips… I felt like a slug being salted to death while a cruel child smiled down. I had relocated! I had been there over two years! That had to at least count for something, right?
No.
Getting fired was sad. All those Peewee Longway memes saved on my work computer… gone. I’ll never get those back.
Getting fired was frightening. My wife and two daughters rely on me to pay our bills, and I felt like I had failed them. I’m lucky enough that I will receive my salary and benefits through the end of the month, but the prospect of being unemployed with a family induced a mini-crisis. I’ll be able to find a job in a few days, right? Right?! RIGHT!?!? As my breathing normalized and the initial surrealness wore off on the walk to my car, another emotion washed over me.
Getting fired felt good.
I was free. Finally. I should have left this job 8 months ago, but I was a coward, dragging my feet because things were awful but manageable. I sat at a computer all day with no creative outlet, just days full of .xlsx attachments and “Hi Team” email greetings. Did I like what I was doing? Not really. Did it pay well enough to make me compromise myself? Yes. It was a decent job that I sometimes excelled at during those rare occasions when I was engaged. For months, I convinced myself that it would get better. My manager, parents, anyone I talked to said the same thing: “Well, of course you aren’t going to be happy, but you just have to do the work!”
What an absurd concept. The thing I spend a majority of my life devoted to isn’t supposed to bring me an iota of joy? It’s not like having a job you hate makes you appreciate your free time more ( *Very Optimistic Tumblr Teen Voice* The bad makes you appreciate the good!) Having a job that eats away at your very core actually sullies your free time more. You realize how little of it you do have and often forsake it. You dread having to go back. It poisons your psyche. I was miserable from 8:30 am to 6:30 pm five days a week, and when I came home the transition from miserable to happy was slow.
I developed a habit of stopping at the gas station by my house to chug one or two Wicked Redd’s Apple Ales (don’t judge me [it’s the best value at 2 for $5 {and 8% ABV}]) to shake the rust off my personality before I walked through the door. I’m not proud to admit this; it’s pathetic. However, I was a nicer, happier person, which in turn made me a “better” husband and father. Do the ends justify the means?
If my despondency was a broken leg, I used alcohol as an ill-fitting crutch I got for a bargain at a garage sale. I got by, but never tried to fix the real issue.
I met with the vice president the week prior to discuss working remotely — I wanted to move back to Greenville, SC, from Columbia, SC, to be closer to family — and my dissatisfaction with my current roles and career path. It did not go well. For every issue I had there were just no real resolutions either in the short or long term. I got frustrated. When my wife inquired how the meeting went I described it as “two people who were dating having an argument and walking away feeling like they broke up but weren’t sure.” Oh yeah, baby! When that premonition hits!!! >>>>>
What this taught me is that Corporate America gives not one fuck about you. It doesn’t matter how long it’s been there or valuable it is, a cog gets no sympathy or funeral when it falters. It gets replaced. I know the reason I was fired was due to recurring issues regarding lack of communication but they had just given me a 20% raise at the beginning of this year for the hard work I put in during The Holiday Season (our busiest and most lucrative period). They know what I’m capable of, but it’s more about results than morale. I don’t blame them for firing me. My work had suffered, and I had detached. Psych! It’s everyone else’s fault but my own.
I’m not sure what I’ll do next. Do I try to go after another bland SEM job and fall back into the trap? Continue this cycle for the rest of my life? I hope not. Do I try to switch industries? That is certainly an option. Or do I dare to take a risk and sacrifice a bit of money for a bit of fulfillment? That sounds good in theory… but who knows. Maybe I can make something crazy work.
My buddy shared this misquotation with me by Thoreau at lunch hours before I got fired (the quote itself isn’t actually by Thoreau at all, and he really only said the first half of it): “Most men lead lives of quiet desperation and go to the grave with the song still in them.” Even though it’s a bastardized Frankenstein mash-up of a Thoreau sentence and an Oliver Wendell Holmes sentence… it actually has more impact that way. It helped me. Perchance it helps one of you out there.
In the meantime, I’ve got 4 weeks and a considerable amount of time to devote to churning out content. I no longer have any excuses to not send out pitches and finish aging drafts. The amount of Fire Tweets™ I can get off now that I don’t have to respond to client needs is going to make you vomit in your own lap.
Still, I am looking for a job so if you are a benevolent Internet Person with real world hiring power, here’s my very cute LinkedIn profile. Hit me up. Let’s build. Though, I suppose if you are, and you read this… my chances aren’t very strong.
Just trying to have fun on the Internet. Surreally oucheah. #TeamGuddaGudda

Death is always a surprise. No one expects it. Not even terminal patients think they are going to die in a day or two. In a week, maybe. But only when this particular week is the next week.
We are never ready. It is never the right time. By the time it comes, you will not have done all the things that we wanted to. The end always comes as a surprise, and it’s a tearful moment for widows and a bore for the children who don’t really understand what a funeral is (thank God).
It was no different with my father. In fact, his death was even more unexpected. He was gone at age 27. The same age that claimed the lives of several famous musicians. He was young. Way too young. My father was not a musician and neither a famous person. Cancer doesn’t pick its victims. He was gone when I was young, and I learned what a funeral was because of him. I was 8 and half, old enough to miss him for a lifetime. Had he died before, I wouldn’t have memories. I would feel no pain. But I wouldn’t have a father in my life. And I had a father.
I had a father who was both firm and fun. Someone who would tell a joke before grounding me. That way, I wouldn’t feel so bad. Someone who kissed me on the forehead before I went to sleep. A habit which I passed on to my children. Someone who forced me to support the same football team he supported, and who explained things better than my mother. Do you know what I mean? A father like that is someone to be missed.
He never told me he was going to die. Even when he was lying on a hospital bed with tubes all over him, he didn’t say a word. My father made plans for the next year even though he knew he wouldn’t be around in the next month. Next year, we would go fishing, we would travel, we would visit places we’ve never been. Next year would be an amazing year. We lived the same dream.
I believe — actually I’m sure — he thought this should bring luck. He was a superstitious man. Thinking about the future was the way he found to keep hope alive. The bastard made me laugh until the very end. He knew about it. He didn’t tell me. He didn’t see me crying.
And suddenly, the next year was over before it even started.
My mother picked me up at school and we went to the hospital. The doctor told the news with all the sensitivity that doctors lose over the years. My mother cried. She did have a tiny bit of hope. As I said before, everyone does. I felt the blow. What does it mean? Wasn’t it just a regular disease, the kind of disease doctors heal with a shot? I hated you, dad. I felt betrayed. I screamed with anger in the hospital, until I realized my father was not around to ground me. I cried.
Then, my father was once again a father to me. With a shoebox under her arm, a nurse came by to comfort me. The box was full of sealed envelopes, with sentences where the address should be. I couldn’t understand exactly what was going on. The nurse then handed me a letter. The only letter that was out of the box.
“Your dad asked me to give you this letter. He spent the whole week writing these, and he wants you read it. Be strong.” the nurse said, holding me.
The envelope read WHEN I’M GONE. I opened it.

Son,
If you’re reading this, I’m dead. I’m sorry. I knew I was going to die.
I didn’t want to tell you what was going to happen, I didn’t want to see you crying. Well, it looks like I’ve made it. I think that a man who’s about to die has the right to act a little bit selfish.
Well, as you can see, I still have a lot to teach you. After all, you don’t know crap about anything. So I wrote these letters for you. You must not open them before the right moment, OK? This is our deal.
I love you. Take care of your mom. You’re the man of the house now.
Love, dad.

PS: I didn’t write letters to your mom. She’s got my car.

He made me stop crying with his bad handwriting. Printing was not easy back then. His ugly writing, which I barely understood, made me feel calm. It made me smile. That’s how my father did things. Like the joke before the grounding.
That box became the most important thing in the world for me. I told my mother not to open it. Those letters were mine and no one else could read them. I knew all the life moments written on the envelopes by heart. But it took a while for these moments to happen. And I forgot about it.
Seven years later, after we moved to a new place, I had no idea where I put the box. I couldn’t remember it. And when we don’t remember something, we usually don’t care about it. If something goes lost in your memory, It doesn’t mean you lost it. It simply doesn’t exist anymore. It’s like change in the pockets of your trousers.
And so it happened. My teenage years and my mother’s new boyfriend triggered what my father had anticipated a long time before. My mother had several boyfriends, and I always understood it. She never married again. I don’t know why, but I like to believe that my father had been the love of her life. This boyfriend, however, was worthless. I thought she was humiliating herself by dating him. He had no respect for her. She deserved something a lot better than a guy she met at a bar.
I still remember the slap she gave me after I pronounced the word “bar”. I’ll admit that I deserved it. I learned that over the years. At the time, when my skin was still burning from the slap, I remembered the box and the letters. I remembered a specific letter, which read “WHEN YOU HAVE THE WORST FIGHT EVER WITH YOUR MOM”.
I ransacked my bedroom looking for it, which earned me another slap in the face. I found the box inside a suitcase lying on top of the wardrobe. The limbo. I looked through the letters, and realized that I had forgotten to open WHEN YOU HAVE YOUR FIRST KISS. I hated myself for doing that, and I decided that would be the next letter I’d open. WHEN YOU LOSE YOUR VIRGINITY came right next in the pack, a letter I was hoping to open really soon. Eventually I found what I was looking for.

Now apologize to her.
I don’t know why you’re fighting and I don’t know who’s right. But I know your mother. So a humble apology is the best way to get over this. I’m talking about a down-on-your-knees apology.
She’s your mother, kid. She loves you more than anything in this world. Do you know that she went through natural birth because someone told her that it would be the best for you? Have you ever seen a woman giving birth? Do you need a bigger proof of love than that?
Apologize. She’ll forgive you.
Love, dad.

My father was not a great writer, he was just a bank clerk. But his words had a great impact on me. They were words that carried more wisdom than all of my 15 years of age at the time. (That wasn’t very hard to achieve, though).
I rushed to my mother’s room and opened the door. I was crying when she turned her head to look me in the eyes. She was also crying. I don’t remember what she yelled at me. Probably something like “What do you want?” What I do remember is that I walked towards her holding the letter my father wrote. I held her in my arms, while my hands crumpled the old paper. She hugged me, and we both stood in silence.
My father’s letter made her laugh a few minutes later. We made peace and talked a little about him. She told me about some of his most eccentric habits, such as eating salami with strawberries. Somehow, I felt he was sitting right next to us. Me, my mother and a piece of my father, a piece he left for us, on a piece of paper. It felt good.
It didn’t take long before I read WHEN YOU LOSE YOUR VIRGINITY

Congratulations, son.
Don’t worry, it gets better with time. It always sucks the first time. Mine happened with an ugly woman…who was also a prostitute.
My biggest fear is that you’d ask your mother what virginity is after reading what’s on the letter. Or even worse, reading what I just wrote without knowing what jerking off is (you know what it is, right?). But that’s none of my business.
Love, dad.

My father followed me through my entire life. He was with me, even though he was not near me. His words did what no one else could: they gave me strength to overcome countless challenging moments in my life. He would always find a way to put a smile on my face when things looked grim, or clear my mind during those angry moments.
WHEN YOU GET MARRIED made me feel very emotional. But not so much as WHEN YOU BECOME A FATHER.

Now you’ll understand what real love is, son. You’ll realize how much you love her, but real love is something you’ll feel for this little thing over there. I don’t know if it’s a boy or a girl. I’m just a corpse, I’m not a fortune teller.
Have fun. It’s a great thing. Time is gonna fly now, so make sure you’ll be around. Never miss a moment, they never come back. Change diapers, bathe the baby, be a role model to this child. I think you have what it takes to be an amazing father, just like me.

The most painful letter I read in my entire life was also the shortest letter my father wrote. While he wrote those four words, I believe he suffered just as much as I did living through that moment. It took a while, but eventually I had to open WHEN YOUR MOTHER IS GONE.

She is mine now.

A joke. A sad clown hiding his sadness with a smile on his makeup. It was the only letter that didn’t make me smile, but I could see the reason.
I always kept the deal I had made with my father. I never read letters before their time. With the exception of WHEN YOU REALIZE YOU’RE GAY. Since I never thought I’d have to open this one, I decided to read it. It was one of the funniest letters, by the way.

What can I say? I’m glad I’m dead.
Now, all joking aside, being half-dead made me realize that we care too much about things that don’t matter much. Do you think that changes anything, son?
Don’t be silly. Be happy.

I would always wait for the next moment, the next letter. The next lesson my father would teach me. It’s amazing what a 27 year old man can teach to an 85 year old senior like me.
Now that I am lying on a hospital bed, with tubes in my nose and my throat thanks to this damn cancer, I run my fingers on the faded paper of the only letter I didn’t open. The sentence WHEN YOUR TIME COMES is barely visible on the envelope.
I don’t want to open it. I’m scared. I don’t want to believe that my time is near. It’s a matter of hope, you know? No one believes they’re gonna die.
I take a deep breath, opening the envelope.

Hello, son. I hope you’re an old man now.
You know, this letter was the easiest to write, and the first I wrote. It was the letter that set me free from the pain of losing you. I think your mind becomes clearer when you’re this close to the end. It’s easier to talk about it.
In my last days here I thought about the life I had. I had a brief life, but a very happy one. I was your father and the husband of your mother. What else could I ask for? It gave me peace of mind. Now you do the same.
My advice for you: you don’t have to be afraid
PS: I miss you
Just figuring the best way to be you.
Hi! Today seems like a good day to answer some frequently asked questions.
Q: Are you marking any significant anniversaries today?
A: Yes, yes I am! Today is the second anniversary of Steve’s death.
Q: Who is Steve?
A: Steve was my husband uh DOI.
Q: Urm, now I feel bad for not knowing that.
A: It’s fine. At the two year point I find myself having to make more and more choices about whether or not I immediately blurt out HEYDIDYOUKNOWI’MAWIDOWTHAT’SMYFUNFACT!!!!!!! People in my life are less likely to have been around then and more likely to need to be briefed on this backstory. This is extremely annoying because after two years, I still don’t have a better way to relate this information than all caps-no spaces shouting.
But beneath that, it’s actually a super awesome thing, because it means that my world has gotten so much bigger in these two years. I’ve met a lot of people, and done a lot of things that I maybe only mildly imagined doing before.
Q: Dude, that sort of makes it sound like you’re glad Steve died.
A: I’m not, and that’s kind of a dick thing to say.
Q: I’M SORRY, I’M SORRY, I’M SORRY!
A: Ha ha, SIKE! I’m just fucking with you. I’m not glad Steve died, not even a little. He has missed SO MUCH COOL SHIT. He missed the opening with Cuba, which he would have been really stoked about. He’s missing an equality revolution in spaces around gender and sexual identity, race, police power, capital, and class. He’s missing whatever they’re doing with Hine over at Eastern Market. He’s missing our cat Claudia’s turbulent adolescence. He’s missing BERNIE SANDERS ELIZABETH WARRREN AND LAWRENCE LESSIG ‘NUFF SAID.
Also, I’m missing him. Obviously. A lot. BUT: I have a cousin who’s also a widow, and she told my sister that she’s not sure if she’d bring her husband back. Which sounds TOTALLY CRAZY to other people, BUT: When you experience a loss like this, you get to see a really wild new amount of life. Suddenly the range of the type of sad you can feel, to the type of happy you can feel, is busted open. The spectrum from happy to sad isn’t a foot wide anymore — it’s as far as your arms can stretch and then to the edges of the room and then up the block and over into the next neighborhood.
So I am not happy that Steve died. But I am happy a lot of the time, which I didn’t really anticipate on this day two years ago.
Q: What happened on this day two years ago?
A: Good question! While many people know that I am a widow, probably not a ton know what went down. Pretty much no one knows exactly what went down, because I don’t even know what happened.
What I do know is that for a couple of weeks, Steve had what we thought was a summer cold. Some coughing, some sneezing. Then he started a new job, and felt like that stress was compounding the illness — but it didn’t occur to either of us that this was a thing that was more than just something passing. He certainly didn’t think it was worth taking a sick day during his first week of work.
That Friday he came home from work REALLY REALLY sick. He’d barely been able to drive. I made him get up off the couch and go to an urgent care. The doctor there prescribed him an antibiotic and said “it’s either the flu or it’s not, so this will either work or it won’t.” We went to CVS and got the scrip filled right as they were closing. I had to pull a cry face to get them to fill it, and when I got back to the car I was pretty proud of myself for badgering them into doing it — I told Steve that “bitches get shit done.” Tina Fey went on to steal this line from me. (Right? I’m pretty sure that’s how this went down, but my memory isn’t great.)
Steve didn’t sleep very well that night. Around 5 a.m. he couldn’t sleep, so we woke up and watched some 30 Rock together. (The degree to which Tina Fey figures into this story is only being revealed to me now, two years later.) I went back to sleep. Around 9 a.m. I made my way up to Eastern Market to get groceries, and when I got back, Steve came down the stairs, carrying a bunch of his sick dude things — probably some Kleenexes, his thermometer, a seltzer can. I joked about him doing a Rachael Ray carry. Then he started coughing.
I don’t remember the sequence of events very well. He was sitting on the couch at one point and I encouraged him to cough it up, whatever it was. At one point he went into the kitchen and looked out the glass door to the patio, and said “Oh fuck.”
He started coughing up blood. I went to get him a bowl to cough into, and then said “that’s it, I’m calling 911.” And then he collapsed onto his knees, and fell on the ground.
The 911 operator wasn’t super helpful. I kept asking if I should do CPR and she kept asking if he was responsive, if he was breathing. I was surprised by how hard it was to tell. At one point I pulled on his ear to see if he would respond. I turned him on his side and tried to clear his airway. I cajoled the 911 operator, but weirdly, in the moment, I was really focused on being polite. Like, using a ton of please and thank you, as if that would make the fire truck get up Florida Avenue faster. Finally, after a couple of minutes, I heard the sirens and the operator said to me “well, let me just make sure that’s for you.” Because, Welcome to Washington, D.C., District Slogan: Those Sirens Might Not Be For You.
The EMTs cut off his shirt and intubated him, but they didn’t shock him. They used a machine to tell them whether or not to do it, and the machine said “don’t.” I don’t know if it was “don’t bother” or “you don’t need to.” I don’t know if they knew this wasn’t going to end well or not. They asked me how old he was, which I assume was to gauge whether to keep working or not.
Once we were in the ambulance, I asked where we were going and one of the EMTs just sort of nodded “no” to me, and indicated I should hold on. It felt like we sat there for a long time, trying to figure out what was happening. I struggled to call my parents with my cellphone — which was, ironically a recurring nightmare for me. That something was happening to Steve and I’d have to dial 911 and I wouldn’t be able to unlock my phone or dial the right number. Eventually I got my dad, who was in North Carolina, and he sent my sister over, who luckily was already down in the city helping a friend move.
Then I had to call Steve’s parents, which was horrible. Steve’s mom was excited to hear from me, since on their end, it was just a normal Saturday morning. And I had to say, no, turn down, your son’s in the back of an ambulance and the EMT just gave me a “no” nod.
Eventually we took off for Howard University Hospital, which was the closest ER. They took me into a tiny little room that wasn’t square, so all of the furniture was crammed in at weird angles. A chaplain came in and said some very anatomically specific prayers, which even as they were cutting Steve open and trying to resuscitate his heart directly, I thought was funny. My sister Sarah showed up, and they called a Catholic chaplain so he could give Steve last rites. I don’t know how the last rites went, but in terms of dealing with the non-dying, that guy was fucking terrible. I wish I could remember his name so I could pan him on Yelp.
Doctors would come in pretty frequently to update me, but only one or two of those times were they hopeful. Apparently his heart caught a couple of times, but it never stayed working. When the doctor came in to tell me that they’d declared a time of death, I made him tell it to Steve’s parents on the phone.
Sarah and I saw him at least twice, once while they were still working on him, and once after they’d cleaned him up. As they led me out of the ER, I told the nurse that I was conflicted about whether or not I should take a photo of his body. She told me I’d see him again, at the funeral, and that I should just focus on sleeping and eating. And then I said “I can’t believe it, he was such a good husband.”
And she said, “Yeah, but he did a shitty thing today.”
And that was the first time I laughed after Steve died.
Ultimately what seems to have happened is that an infection developed in his heart. This is probably related to the surgery he’d had around Christmas, to repair an aneurysm in a valve in his heart. I don’t have better clarity than this, and to some extent, the facts I did dig up, I’ve forgotten. It’s impossible to overstate what a hit your memory takes when you lose someone. It’s also impossible to overstate what a bureaucratic clusterfuck it is. GUYS, I CAN’T STRESS THIS ENOUGH: IF YOU SHARE A PHONE PLAN WITH SOMEONE, MAKE SURE EVERYONE’S AN AUTHORIZED USER.
Q: Um damn, I’m like, a little overwhelmed now.
A: Yeah, me too. I’ve been that way for two years. So if you sent me an email and I didn’t respond to it, that’s what happened. I couldn’t respond to your query about a story pitch because my husband coughed to death.
Q: So how are you doing in general?
A: I mean, like I keep saying, it’s fine. I realized today that I’d never much thought about what would happen after two years. After one year, I thought I might try to date (and in fact I tried earlier than that, and it was COMICALLY BAD). In year two I thought I might be in a good enough head space to make a career transition (also: fail).
But now, with no more map — with truly no expectation that getting this far was a real possibility, I feel like I’m starting to be strong enough to do the work to make those sorts of things happen. I have the beginnings of a plan and a little bit of vision about how to pursue the kind of creative community I want to be part of, and the resources to do that, even if it doesn’t make any money. Even though it’s frightening, I feel like I’m getting closer to being able to hand someone my soppy bruised tomato of a heart. If they cup their hands and treat it with gentle little kitten paws, I think I might be ok.
One thing is for sure — I used to fucking HATE IT when people asked me, with that welling sincerity in their eyes, “but how ARE you?” I probably don’t actually hate it any less, but it happens less now.
Q: What have you learned over the past two years?
A: Hoo boy. HOO BOY. HUUUUUOOOOOOOHHHHHHH BOOOOOOOOOY.
Q: It sort of seems like you’re stalling, tbh.
A: Busted. I think about that question a lot. I would love to unequivocally be like “I am so much more empathetic now, and I have grand insights into the universe!”
But that’s not really the case. I haven’t really had a magnificent realization about the necessity of doing what you love, or cutting the bullshit. For those of you who don’t know me, bullshit is my number one stock-in-trade. If I have had anything like a satori, I haven’t acted on it.
Probably the biggest finding of the past two years for me is that being comfortable being uncomfortable is a very effective way to be a human.
I am constantly trying to teach myself to watch my feelings as they pass through me, rather than chasing them away with Manhattans or Ambien or Netflix. I often fail at this. I am trying harder to engage with people as they are — not being afraid of strangers, asking better questions, really listening to the answers, not being afraid to go to a second location, being less judgmental.
Basically, I’m trying to have an open heart. I’ve learned that it’s really hard to do, but I think it’s probably the Step 1 of any attempt to really be alive, following something like this.
Q: I’ve noticed that throughout this FAQ you’ve used two spaces after a period.
A: Yeah, I’m not a fucking ANIMAL.
All my love,
Rachel
Producer @morningedition for @NPRNew rachelmendlward.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences
We’re on a journey together, you and me. We’ve come a long way, but design for the web is still in its adolescence. In the early aughts we learned to build websites without tables, then we learned to use data to make decisions. Emotion never played a role in driving page views, purchases or video plays. We just needed to get people from point A to point B. People live their entire lives online now, we’re embarking on a new frontier as designers; we’re designing frameworks for people to exist online — a lot like they do offline.
I first started to notice the disconnect between design and how people actually live after my mom died. Every Mother’s Day my inbox filled with messages suggesting gifts for my dead mom. It used to sting, especially when I worked at a greeting card company and all 10 of my test accounts would be bombarded with reminders she was gone. I felt utterly alone in those moments, but somewhere a marketer was watching open rates and conversions go up and to the right. They weren’t thinking about me, and it’s not personal, they’re making something for the majority of people — people whose moms don’t happen to be dead. Almost a decade later I’m pretty used to it, but I know even the most benign design can be loaded with risk.
When I worked in travel we ran the risk of sending people promotions based on trips they had booked for funerals. When I worked in insurance people most commonly accessed their policy documents after experiencing an accident. In one user test a woman was shown her credit score in an effort to provide more helpful context about how her auto policy rate was calculated. Confronted with this number she broke down in tears, the score triggered memories of a terrible hospitalization that had caused her family financial crisis. Even filing your taxes can be anxiety inducing if you’re down to the wire and can’t make sense of the software. People completing seemingly straightforward tasks do so in a variety of contexts and life circumstances. Humanity can be sad, complicated and messy. We don’t stop being human when we go online.Sometimes even when you’re trying to make something with the best intentions, something can go terribly wrong. Sometimes the very tools you create to protect people cause harm. What can we do?
For years designers have approached software as though it were neutral: here’s a set of options, now complete a task. In reality, people interact with software like it’s a human. As designers, we can shift our approach to thinking about how people might feel using our products much like we would think about having a conversation with another person. The ability to handle relationships and be aware of emotions is called emotional intelligence, and it’s what’s often missing in software design today.
Emotional intelligence is defined with five characteristics:

The difficult thing about “know thyself” as it applies to software, is that software doesn’t have feelings. Ultimately what’s expressed to a person using software is either explicit from a designer when we have opinions and try to persuade, or implicitly from how the interaction makes the person feel.For example, on Facebook, we want to be respectful guardians of people’s data, so in ad settings we want people to declare intent about how they want to be advertised to. This is in contrast to presenting an array of every possible option which a person may never take action on. We ask how you want to see ads: “Do you want to see ads based on your behavior?” This is how we designed empowerment: we gave people the tools to make an informed choice, by not muddying the message with all of the more granular options within that choice.
It’s easy for designers to be aware of our opinions and design interactions that support the outcomes we want. Being aware of how non-choices affect an experience is much more challenging. Emotions spread. Humans mirror. If a people perceive an interface as expressing an emotion, they are likely to also feel that emotion. Whether designers intend to or not, we’re building relationships. Imagine the relationship you might have with a piece of government software as if it were a person. How do we act and feel in relationships? Things can escalate quickly. An interaction could be just the latest in a series of slights, it’s like the app just left a wet towel on the floor or forgot to take out the trash. You’re screaming in your head “I can’t believe it’s doing this to me!” Maybe it’s preventing you from doing something really important, like renewing your license. This has a real effect on our bodies. A universal trigger for anger is a sense of endangerment, which can be signaled not just with physical threat, but more often symbolic threats: being treated unjustly, or being insulted and demeaned. This creates an energy surge in our body which lasts several minutes, but the effects of which can last much longer.
The risk with the neutrality of software is that we may be able to understand every possible logical outcome in a situation (though often we don’t) but we’re unable to assign values to those outcomes. This is especially true with binary systems: a person completes a task or they don’t. This sounds neutral, when in fact the consequences of not completing the task could range from inconvenient to devastating. This lack of awareness is where we get into trouble and sometimes unintentionally do harm. Reason without feeling is blind.
What is the cost of a decision that harms a few thousand people compared to a decision that irritates millions? Ellen Pao talks about problems of scale to The Washington Post “If mistakes are made 0.01 percent of the time, that could mean tens of thousands of mistakes.”So much of an emotional message is nonverbal, and a computer can’t pick up those cues. Designers can’t see people’s expressions or body language, but we can try to understand reactions by paying very careful attention to what people do, particularly in aggregate.Numbers often don’t mean what we think they do, they tell us the what but not the why. Metrics are a great way to come up with assumptions to be challenged, but don’t say a lot without context. If someone is spending more time in a product, is it because the product is great or because the person can’t find what they need?A friend of mine used a feature on a professional networking site that scraped her address book for contacts. She didn’t know the service would automatically connect her to every person in her inbox, an inbox that spans a decade. She was suddenly connected to a person she never wanted to speak to again. Somewhere in a data warehouse, the volume of connections on this service appears to be going up, which superficially seems good. However, the quality of those connections is diminishing. How many of these people actually want to be connected? How many are actually going to return to the site because they were connected to someone they exchanged an email with 3 years ago? That number going up isn’t very meaningful.

Designers need their users’ motivations to inform their own. The best way to understand motivation is to change perspective. Unfortunately, this isn’t always easy, and I had to learn the hard way. After college, as one does when adult problems and a desk job catch up to you, I gained a lot of weight — over a hundred pounds, which I later lost. I learned very quickly what it meant to live in a world not designed for me. Things most people take for granted are ordeals: seat belts on airplanes, buying functional workout clothes, or really any clothes. The first time I walked into a store and realized they didn’t carry my size I felt a lot of things. I felt like the store was actively hostile. I felt like the store was rejecting me and was saying another type of body was better than mine.
I do not recommend trying this.Our perspectives can also be informed by the people we spend time with. If a team is diverse, more perspectives are brought to the table, products have fewer blind spots and designers create more things people actually need. Think about five people you know with wildly different backgrounds and life circumstances, how would they feel using different products?
A little humility can go a long way. Designers are not the users of their products. Right as designers were learning about web standards, popular design offered the wisdom “scratch your own itch.” This works well for solving one specific problem, but ignores all other problems. Designers can’t assume everyone wants what we’re offering. People don’t always use things in the way we expect, only research can tell us what’s really going on.
For a while after my mom died, every birthday and Christmas my Stepdad would get me a Bath & Body Works gift card. His reasoning was that my mom loved Bath & Body Works, so I probably would to. I hate Bath & Body Works. His intentions were sweet and sincere, but every time I got one of those gift cards I felt like he didn’t know me. Every time I design something new I ask myself if I am giving someone Bath & Body Works gift cards.
Good content strategy is a great tool for communicating with an intentional tone. What’s the product’s voice? If the design were a person, how should it be perceived? Friend? Teacher? Trusted advisor? Sham-wow spokesperson? What kind of reaction could this voice elicit when someone is experiencing the product in the worst case scenario?Let’s be honest about priorities. The definition of priority is “a thing that is regarded as more important than another.” By prioritizing one thing, we are inherently deprioritizing something else, do I know what I’m deprioritizing? Eric Meyer says when you call something an edge case, you’re really just defining the limits of what you care about; he calls them stress cases. (He would also like to give credit for paraphrasing Evan Henſleigh.) In December Facebook’s Year in Review product suggested Eric should relive a “great” year, resurfacing a post about his daughter’s death. We invited him to come speak to us candidly about his experiences. Generously, he told us the reason we don’t see planes falling from the sky is because there’s 60 years of air crash data to draw on when designing planes.
This is uncharted territory, and mistakes are going to be made. When designers make mistakes we have to take responsibility to move forward. An honest process has enough time to test assumptions, and to be wrong and iterate on those assumptions. Good research will bring as many new questions as it does answer. Sometimes a product works great in carefully controlled tests, but won’t be stressed until wide release.

Without mindfulness, products might only be rude, but they might also affect someone’s health, their support systems, or their very livelihood. A good friend once told me that to be an adult is to be aware. It’s time for design to become an adult. As product and service design collide, designers are responsible for understanding every ripple of our work.
Nurture the relationships your products are creating as though they were happening in the physical world, and give without expecting anything in return. We have a saying at Facebook, this journey is 1% finished. No one can ever be fully aware, but designers have to be open to growth and the possibility we’re wrong. Less up and to the right, more up and to the heart.
Many thanks to Jonathon Colman, Lisa Sy, Hannah Fletcher and Ed Salvana for their feedback on my drafts.
I make creepy comics and toys, and design @ Facebook.
Stories from designers at Facebook offices across the world

A little over a year ago, I moved to London and as part of the move, I sold my car. This was a big deal for me as a native of LA, where car ownership is celebrated, no matter how bad the traffic gets. I owned a 2004 Toyota 4Runner with 140k miles (not all VCs fly in private jets to work). I am not a “car person,” but I loved my car because it almost never broke down in our ten years together. But, the move meant it had to go, and so it was sold for next-to-nothing to a really nice dad with two kids.
While I may have been sad to see my car go, I wasn’t concerned about being car-less because — when not on strike — public transportation is pretty good in Europe, and Uber is nearly ubiquitous in major cities. I knew Uber was more expensive in London, but everything was more expensive in London and I had factored that into my decision to move in the first place.
What I didn’t expect was that depending on Uber (UberX specifically) would actually be cheaper than owning and driving a car. Much cheaper. Yes, the company says this, but I didn’t think it was realistic yet.
Well, it is. At least for me.
I’ve been back in SF for a couple of months and have been wondering if I should buy a car. So, I compared my transportation expenses over the past two years. There are some obvious caveats, but here’s a quick break-down:
Car (August 2013-August 2014)
Apartment Parking Space: $350/month x 12 months = $4,200 [1]
Gas: 23 gallons x $3.75/gallon = $86.25, $86.25 x 52 weeks = $4,485 [2]
Insurance: $133 x 12 months = $1,596 [3]
That’s $10,281/year right there for just the basics, not factoring in normal servicing, repairs, car washes, other parking, tolls or tickets (and there were tickets). And of course, that’s not including the amortized cost for the purchase of the car in the first place. It’s just the bare annual minimum.
This also doesn’t include the additional Uber, taxi or public transportation fares I had throughout the year when I wasn’t driving — for example, after drinks or when traveling in other cities.
Uber (August 2014-August 2015)
Total cost: $4,655.79
That’s a dramatic difference in cost. But to be fair, I had to rent a car 3–4 times in the last year for an additional $1k or so combined. And of course, like the year before, this doesn’t factor in public transportation costs, etc.
Now obviously there are some significant caveats to my comparison. My cities and schedule changed in this time period (though the Uber-only year includes three months in SF). I could have driven a much more fuel efficient vehicle, taken public transportation down south to Sand Hill more often, found cheaper parking (though I’m not actually sure that would have been possible in SF), etc. This is not an exact science.
But if anything, I was traveling more miles in Europe and riding with Uber more frequently because it was dependable and familiar to me.
And that brings me to the part of the comparison that can’t be quantified: peace of mind. Owning a car — particularly in a city — can be stressful. There’s no fewer than a dozen startups in San Francisco trying to fix just the parking hassle (on-demand valets! driveway-share marketplaces! etc). Not having to deal with a car is a luxury — a cheaper one for me. Even when I commute down the peninsula, the combination of a train and Uber for last mile reach is vastly preferable to the hell that is the 101.
Uber has reached such high city density, geographic ubiquity and price diversity that it can truly be an economical replacement for car ownership for some people. There are dozens of factors that make the trade-off right for me, and that’s obviously not the case for everyone, everywhere (families are an obvious example, though Uber appears to be working on that). But it will increasingly be the right choice for more people as the company reaches even greater density and rolls out new services.
It’s worth doing the math for yourself.
***
[1] Apartment parking isn’t cheap in SF, I believe this is true in other condensed cities as well.
[2] The 2004 Toyota 4Runner has a 23 gallon tank with roughly 15–17 mile fuel efficiency. Pretty bad, but remember, this was an old car. My commute from home to KP in Menlo Park was 70 miles round trip and I’d go down to the office 2–3 times a week. The rest of the time I was commuting around the city or out of town on the weekends. I filled up my tank roughly every week and looking at a historical almanac for SF gas prices that year, $3.75/gallon seems about the average. San Francisco has the most expensive gas in California.
[3] My car insurance was $1,600/year, it probably would have been slightly less if I had a newer car.
[Disclosure: I’m an investor in Uber like literally thousands of other people. I believe it’s good business to invest in products and companies you love, if you can.]

Previously: Investment Partner at Kleiner Perkins, built products for people @Square & @Google. I'm told I talk fast.
How work, business and society face massive, technology-driven change. Curated by Tim O’Reilly, Steven Levy and Lauren Smiley, in conjunction with the Next: Economy Summit coming to San Francisco in November.
Whether on an app screen, a web browser, or a wearable watch face, design is one of the most important drivers of consumer engagement. From flat design to Material design, I analysed what trends have evolved, and share a few of my insights with you — what are these trends? Why are they beneficial to the user? And how are they created?
Let’s look at how flat design and Material design came into play and evolved to the trends we see today.
Instead of incorporating a wide array of gradients and shadows, shifting to a ‘flat design’ creates a lighter aesthetic in the app. This means using negative space — instead of gradients, shadows, etc. — can create a simpler interface, focusing only on having core information and removing design elements that are not productive as itself and to the user flow.
Lighter design removes distraction to help guide the user’s eye to meaningful content on the screen, enabling easier navigation while also providing a sleek, modern aesthetic to the brand itself.
Reducing the number of fonts on a screen can reveal the power of typography. Instead of using different typeface and leveraging different characteristics — e.g. italics, bold, semi-bold — and different font sizes can better differentiate discrete areas of content.
Embracing a singular typeface across an entire app drives consistency not only for branding, but also across channels — e.g. app, mobile site, website — thus optimising the mobile elements across the omnichannel experience. Also, users prefer the simplicity of having one typeface to scroll through in identifying relevant content.
While previously lines and dividers were used to clearly delineate specific sections or categories within a screen, adding these elements can result in dense, crowded interfaces. Straying away from lines, interfaces which leverage clustered blocks of content separated by spaces have the advantage of freeing up that space and establishing a clean look.
The removal of explicit lines and dividers provides a modern look that focuses on functionality; for example, images and/or fonts can be bigger, providing visual clarity and improved ease of use. Leveraging space instead of drawing lines helps to define different sections in a non-obtrusive manner.
As users’ preferences shift toward a simpler interface, usage of big fonts and striking colors get more common to make a certain data the center of focus. Highlighted data can vary according to target customers.
Leveraging increased font size and/or a pop of color draws the users’ attention to a particular area of the screen — without an obtrusive, heavy-handed push or command to do so. As a result, users can access information more quickly, providing an easier navigation and information-gathering experience.
Micro-interactions are small visual enhancements (for example — an animation, a sound etc.) that occur around a use case. These scenarios may include completing a transaction, favoriting an item, or prompting a pop-up message. These interactions are subtle, but they differentiate the product by pointing to the attention the right element.
These micro-interactions can be leveraged as a signal to prompt the user while accomplishing a task — e.g. adjusting a setting — creating a small piece of content like a pop-up message. Apps which have well-done micro-interactions considered easier, more fun, and more engaging by their users.
The usage of simpler color schemes became a trend after the introduction of flat design in 2013, which embraces clarity and simplicity. As a result, designers and users alike prefer the usage of smaller number of colors, aiming for a clean look.
Usage of color is essential in creating a certain mood, guiding the user’s area of focus, and communicating a brand. By using fewer colors, the brand identity can be reflected more clearly. In addition, users may prefer this aesthetic as it removes the distraction that too many colors can cause, and it better highlights key features, improving navigation through the app’s flow.
Previously, interfaces were centered around the principle of skeumorphism, a design principle that takes cues from original structures or objects (for example, digital calendar resembling a paper desk calendar, 3D ‘depth’ on app icons, the shutter click sound of a mobile phone). Now that flat design has shifted away from this principle, it opens up the opportunity to create depth in new ways. Primarily, using layers helps create this feeling of depth and dimension, creating a more ‘tangible’ experience.
An implication of flat design was the risk of being ‘too flat’ — with so much subtlety, how can the user navigate and engage, given their conditioning to a 3D physical (and previously digital) world? Layers provide the ability to show one item is on top of another by taking full advantage of the z-axis. Layering and increasing depth helps identify the relationship between different items, and draws attention to certain items.
Ghost buttons are transparent buttons, having no color fill. Their borders are very thin-lined, and the shape itself is basic — such as a rectangular or squared, with right angle or softened edges. Text in these buttons are simple and minimal.
These subtle buttons can grab the user’s attention while still seeming clean, trendy, and unobtrusive. It also allows for there to be a hierarchy of buttons on the screen — if there are different buttons on the screen — if there are different buttons in the same page, they may be designed and placed with prioritisation (e.g. ghost buttons for optional or intermediate steps). In some cases for material design, subtle shadows are used to help users perceive that hierarchy.
With integration of gyroscopes and motion sensors, consumer devices are able to detect movement. With this, interaction between user and the device moves beyond the click and extends real life gestures to the screen.
Users are intuitive about gestures. When asked how to delete an item, users tried to move the item out of the screen regardless of age, sex and gender. Enhances user experience with less taps and more scrolling, applications become more interactive by positioning the screen more than just a touch target.
Through software innovation, designers now have the ability to take advantage of controlling movement with their style sheets. Motion-based design elements can be seen in a variety of forms, including transitions, animations and even on texture to mimic 3D depth. The use of motions within the design helps users to engage with and internalise content, differentiating that element or data/object from others to highlight its importance.
Motions can draw user’s attention to a specific area — or help to distract from it. By showing a visual response, it can increase engagement, delighting the user with a ‘wow’ factor.
Instead of navigating through multiple pages to complete a single transaction, a single screen can include those intermediate steps and reduce the time and effort spent in app. For example, a form can automatically open or highlight the subsequent input area when the user completes the previous field.
Mobile users prefer to complete their transactions in an app easily and quickly while they are on-the-go. Designing the experience of the applications according to this insight minimizes the effort for the user and can increase the rate of conversion and/or frequency of app opens.
Design standards is the process of setting the visual language at the beginning of the project by determining standards such as colors, icons and global padding.
Setting the standards of the design helps to create consistency within the application and between different platforms. It minimizes possible errors while bringing the project into life and makes it easier to make modifications in the future.
A prototype is a preliminary or early working version of a product. The usage of prototypes can provide valuable insights into the functionality of design, highlighting potential changes needed in order to enhance the user experience without costing a major loss in designer time and effort.
By creating these low-cost ‘experiments’, prototyping can clarify the key components of the project, including the feature scope and requirements. It leaves essential time and resources to learn from the experiment and iterate on the product in an insight-driven process.
UX / Visual Designer at Monitise. Design Process Strategist. Public Speaker.
a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

I know he’s got at least some money, because he’s buying Grey Goose. People with money don’t buy cheap vodka, or cheap rum, or cheap whiskey. They invest in the good stuff, like Grey Goose. Three bottles of it.
His suit radiates “expensive”, the kind of expensive that involves several tailors and a high-end store in Manhattan. We aren’t in Manhattan, though. We’re in a fluorescent-lit Ralph’s in a suburban city that sleeps from 10 PM to 6 AM. Men who belong in Manhattan look out of place here.
“How are you doing tonight, sir?” The woman working the register asks pleasantly enough. My eyes are fixated on her hands, veins prominent through tired skin, as they scan bottle after bottle. His own fingers drum on the register wall impatiently. A gold band catches lights and gleams from his ring finger.
“Fine. Now, if you wouldn’t mind speeding up this damn process, I’ve got places to be.” He snaps, taking a black leather wallet out of his jacket pocket, a shiny credit card protruding from the top. It looks like it’s made of silver. He holds it gingerly between his index finger and middle finger, and now that his hands are busy, he begins tapping his foot on the linoleum. There is a faint, distinct rhythm, but I can’t place where I’ve heard it before.
“Yes, of course. I’m sorry.” She says softly, taken aback. The last of the bottles, a handle of Jack Daniel’s, rolls its way to the end of the conveyor belt. “I need your identification, please.”
The man heaves an audible sigh. “My ID… Do I appear to be someone underage? Excuse me, ma’am, for finding my way into your line. I thought cashiers were more competent than this.” He’s irritated, and I can see the blood rising from his neck to his temples. The only thing I can think of is the epinephrine that is coursing through his system, raising his heart rate and accelerating his breathing.
“It’s just store policy, sir,” her voice is small. She does not combat him once.
He pulls out his wallet again and nearly shoves his driver’s license in her face. “This is ridiculous,” he mutters.
The cashier is silent as she takes his credit card and slides it through the machine. She holds it in her left hand like it’s an explosive, ready to implode at the slightest, misguided touch. When the computer signifies that the transaction is complete and the receipt finally prints, he exhales loudly. He leaves the line with four bags of alcohol. I wonder how long those bottles will last him.
I shuffle my feet forward, in awe of the man’s audacity to be so outwardly rude. I glance up, noticing the cashier’s face for the first time. Her brown eyes look heavy, and there is discoloration around her neck, barely visible above the collar of the uniform polo. An amalgamation of black and blue and yellow mix together, in vague forms of fingerprints, marring the translucence of her skin. Time slows down and I swear I can see the fibrin forming the intricate meshwork to mend the broken capillaries. I should be more shocked by this sight. I should not be standing here complacent.
“How are you today, ma’am?” She asks, tone betraying defeat, as I watch her put the few cans of soup into a grocery bag. There’s a cut on the side of her right hand that has been hastily and poorly covered by a flimsy band aid that I did not see before. The wound appears to be somewhat old, darkened by days of healing. Thrombin to fibrinogen to fibrin. I wonder how often her body must endure this cycle of blood-clotting.
“Fine, thank you,” I say distractedly. Maybe it is because my mind is still on the Manhattan man, or because I am too caught up in breaking down biological reactions, or because I don’t want to think about the possibility of abuse, but I don’t ask “How are you” in return. The synapse of that thought is dead before it even had a chance to come to the forefront of my mind.
I pay for my groceries with old, crumpled bills and leave hurriedly with a bag in each hand. As soon as I’m out the door it dawns on me that I didn’t reciprocate the question. I slow down my pace and with each step, out the door, onto the pavement, then the asphalt, I feel strange. I didn’t bother to look at her name tag. I didn’t ask how she was... I didn’t ask how she was.
How many customers had she seen, but they had not seen her? How many days can we go through without taking the time to leave our own busy thoughts and comfort behind and extend basic courtesy to one another? Who was I but just another person who left that woman’s presence without acknowledging that she was worthy of a mere question? Perhaps that “How are you” was what she desperately needed in that moment, to have a voice, to feel valued, to feel human, to know that someone cares. I am no better than the man before me who had completely disrespected her. In a sense, I am worse; I have no alcohol or expensive suit to use as excuses, only my own innate selfishness and apathy.
The car is still parked as I sit in the driver’s seat, staring out the windshield at nothing in particular. Looking down at my own hands, I realize in my near 19 years of existence that they have not seen even half the scope of human suffering that is undeniably present in this world. I close them into fists and feel weak.
DNA cannot code for compassion. There is an underlying source of empathy, burying itself in the microscopic spaces between the sequences of A’s and T’s and C’s and G’s, that does not come from myself. I pray that the man in the suit finds wholeness in something far more lasting than the satisfaction of an empty bottle. I pray that the cashier is heard and finds solace in a source of comfort far greater than anything any human could ever provide. I pray that I may become someone who asks how others are doing before they even have the opportunity to ask me.
Thrombin to fibrinogen to fibrin. Mistake to consequence to learning.
These are the ways we heal and grow.
constantly seeking and yearning.
Here there is hope, humor, and help as you deepen your connection to others, yourself, and to your work.
70 years ago, there was no visual technology to broadcast the aftermath of the a-bomb dropped just 3 days before in Hiroshima. On August 9th 1945 at 11.02am, survivors like Shigemi Fukahori — aged 14 at the time — had no idea that they were also victims of a nuclear weapon dropped by a US B-29 plane.
“When I heard the explosion, I had no idea it was an atomic bomb,” Fukahori tells me as we meet in a back room in Urakawa Cathedral, where he is now a parishioner aged 84. “But it was so loud, the ground shook incredibly hard. The moment my body felt the ripples of the explosion, I knew that this was an attack on a scale none of us had ever experienced before.”
Fukuhori, like many others who survived the attack, did not turn to media in the immediate aftermath for information. “Back in those days, there was no TV or the internet so it was impossible to see what the damage looked like unless you were physically present where it happened,” he says. “Either way, we didn’t know the exact weapon dropped in Hiroshima just three days before; all we heard was that it fell victim to ‘a new kind of bomb’. The same phrase had been used on the radio with this attack on Nagasaki. But none of us had the time to process the science behind the attack; we were just shocked with what we saw on the ground.”
The attack on Nagasaki was an outcome of a plan overturned at the last minute by the US forces. Despite setting their sights onto Kokura, another city also in Kyushu prefecture, they switched their target to Nagasaki at the last minute. The sunny weather there was a better opportunity to maximise the nuclear technology; more exposure to heat meant the more damage was going to be done.
Fukuhori was inside a factory 3.4 km away from the epicentre, where he had taken a day off from a Christian summer school when the atomic bomb had dropped. “I survived the attack scarless precisely because I was inside a building in the shade, away from the sun,” he said. “The same applies to my father, who survived because he was working at a weapons factory, which could withstand any kind of attack. But I never found the bodies of my mother, my two brothers and two sisters who were within less than 1km of epicentre; the war had forced them to study at home, which like all homes were made out of wood.”
A few years after the attack, Fukahori left for Tokyo to pursue his studies in theology at university. It was only upon his return after completing his studies that he had learnt of the weapon and saw first hand how it had affected his community; Christians who were regular attendees of the Urakami Cathedral and lived in the area.
“As the men were away fighting when the attack happened, it was the women and children who lived in these who suffered most in the years to come,” he recalls. “Many of the women I know had developed Keloid scars as a result of the radiation from the bomb. Most of these women are now dead; when they were alive, they would not come out of the house as they felt judged for their appearance. Many also chose to remain single, as they were also afraid they would give birth to disabled children.”
70 years later, Urakawa cathedral projected a video on its newly reconstructed building to take audiences on a journey to retrace the series of events. “Because I am alive, I feel a sense of responsibility to continue living the message of peace,” he says. “As the head of a Virgin Mary statue survived the radiation with black scorched eyes, it’s become a symbol of those who endured the pain in years to come, piecing together what had happened to them. Nagasaki must be the last to go through this ordeal.”
Independent Journalist @motherboard @IndexCensorship ex-@AP Deputy Video News Editor. Human rights, arts & current affairs in digital era. @Cambridge_Uni alum
We publish informed perspectives on fringe topics and add outside narratives to perennial stories — voices worth hearing.

Pretty much every new app has the following problem: lots of people sign up but don’t stick around.
I frequently get asked what are benchmarks for retention after one day or one week. My answer tends to be the same for products in the early days:
Most people look too much at the “big data” and try to draw conclusions. In the early days of a product you have to talk to people. You need anecdotes much more than data. You could say The plural of anecdote is data.
To collect anecdotes, you have to talk to actual users. The best users to call are ones who can help you understand why they tried your product and what hooked them. I like to look for bouncebacks. Bouncebacks are users that have tried your product, bailed immediately and didn’t find it useful, came back to try again for some reason (at least 1 week later, or even better, 1 month later), and then got hooked.
The first step is to identify some bounceback users to call. Select users who you now consider highly active users, but had a specific gap between the time of first signup, and getting into habitual use. Look for different ranges of time between their first attempt to use the product, and when they returned and got hooked. Reach out to them and ask if they would be willing to chat with you about their experiences with your product. It is good to target having around 10 conversations. It is ok to divide the conversations up among different team members.
Ask the following four questions:
Try to find patterns in their answers to help you understand:
From these patterns, you can invest in revising your marketing and improving your product and onboarding. Revamp your messaging to focus more on the messages that brought people back and got them engaged. Update your product and onboarding to simplify whatever the users did the second time to get fully engaged.
A lot of this I learned from a project that Twitter ran with Adaptive Path in 2009 to start understanding our user growth challenges. @stop, @trammell and @ladylexy were instrumental in putting together that first set of user research and learnings that led to a lot of the growth work Twitter invested in over the subsequent years.
We learned from early users that many of them signed up for Twitter and thought it was just a megaphone. When they had nothing to say, and didn’t otherwise understand the product they bailed. When they later heard about how valuable Twitter could be if they followed their reverend or the food truck that broadcasts its location every day, they came back and tried again. But this second time they specifically sought out people to follow and had a good experience. We rapidly rebuilt our onboarding to focus much more on following and finding the right people which caused significant increases in how many users were activated after signing up. We revised our messaging to talk much more about finding and following the right people on Twitter instead of talking about tweeting and broadcasting.
I recommend doing this exercise of interviewing new bounceback users every 6 months. You’ll learn a lot about how to keep improving your adoption and activation.
Product Guy. I have worked on Twitter, Facebook Connect, Zazzle, LinkedIn, RealPlayer. Partner at Greylock, looking for crazy new things.



Airbnb, Disney World, Uber and Nest. They are all phenomenal products, which together are worth over $135 billion! Not only do their services deliver great value, their experiences are so well thought out and executed that their strategy goes unnoticed. In other words, their user experiences are invisible.
When designing the experience and interactions of a product, the most common question I ask myself is, “What is the least amount of work a user has to do, to achieve their desired outcome?”
Who actually enjoys fiddling around with dropdown menus, input forms and buttons? Sometimes as designers, we can be distracted by unnecessary noise when thinking through an experience. We bring emphasis to ‘beautifully designed forms’ because it’s the easier way out. One method I found quite effective is to think of the end goal and work backwards. This allows you to think beyond UI elements and really focus on what matters.
As designers it is important for us to think more holistically about a product and its experience. Polishing pixels is important but an experience which is so great that the design goes unnoticed is even better.
Jared Spool, an expert on the subjects of usability and design explains how Netflix sent out a survey asking their users what they liked best about their service. Customers replied with “Great selection of movies, recommendation tool was helpful and the overall service was great. However one thing they didn’t mention was the site was super functional, intuitive and well designed.

When booking a place on Airbnb, the real value is when the host wants to accommodate the guest who contacted them. In retrospect, Airbnb could have thousands of ‘available’ places to stay at but if no hosts wants to accommodate you — you’ll have a negative experience.
So what does Airbnb do to fast track you to the real value?
It’s invisible. Searching on Airbnb is quite simple and the forms are very minimal. When you make a search on Airbnb, behind the scenes they use machine learning to detect host preferences.
Without going too in depth, what this means is that they have created a machine learning model that learns host behaviours and preferences for accommodation requests. With this understanding, they can optimise a ‘guest’ search results with ‘hosts’ that are more likely to accept your request as a priority. This makes your experience on Airbnb more meaningful as you’re very likely to receive a quick and successful response from a host.
I am yet to experience an Airbnb host who does not respond to me.

Disney World invested $1billion on a magical wristband. Why? because it gives them the opportunity to create a frictionless, magical experience through invisible design.
It all begins when you book your ticket online and pick your favourite rides. Behind the scenes, they capture everything from you. With this data they are able to crunch your preferences then provide you a calculated itinerary that keeps you on route and stops you from zig zagging back and forth across the park.
This invisible experience also flows into your restaurant booking. When you make the reservation the restaurant host will already know your name. In fact, you can sit anywhere and your food will magically make its way to you! How? The restaurant is fitted out with advanced sensors which open up a whole new world of opportunities for them.
With Disney World knowing where you’re located in their magical theme park, this also opens up a ton of new opportunities to deliver an ever greater experience. Just imagine your children’s favourite characters come to them instead of them have weaving through the swarm of people.
As you can see, great design brings great experiences.
From a business standpoint, being able to optimise every itinerary will allow people to explore more of the park’s top attractions. When visitors spend less time in lines, they can do more and ultimately spend more!

Taxis on-demand.
Who ever thought one screen could disrupt an entire industry?
Waving down a taxi before the Uber days was a nightmare. Stranded on the busy streets on a cold winters morning at 4am in Sydney, is not a great experience.
The design of the Uber experience is phenomenal. From an interaction standpoint, Uber solves all of the consumers uncertainties within one screen.
On the opening of the app (with location services permitted), the user does not have to engage with any UI elements to experience the value of the product. This is a great example of industry leading design thinking. They’ve nailed “What is the least amount of work a user has to do, to achieve their desired outcome?” on the head.
As the app loads:
If you have noticed with the success of Uber, the entire concept of booking cabs has diminished. Uber doesn’t offer the ability to ‘book a cab for tomorrow’. They’ve disrupted and revolutionised the industry standards and expectations.

Current thermostats are expensive, complicated and inefficient. Tony Fadell saw this as a major problem, so he created Nest. As the designer of 18 generations of iPods and 3 generations of iPhones, he applied his learnings in creating a ‘Smart Thermostat’.
Most people don’t program their thermostats for many reasons — for me it’s because it’s too fiddly. The Nest team have come up with an experience so great, it’s literally invisible.
For the first 7 days of installation, the thermostat will learn your preferences and personalised schedule. Some features it accommodates include:
This is great because it’s all done behind the scenes. The only thing required from the user is to set the temperatures during the first week. There’s no more fiddling around with unnecessary UI elements. Hence why Nest was bought out by Google.
Great (invisible) design comes at a great cost.
As we endure technological advances and a better understanding of technology, data, user behaviours and expectations, these experiences become more and more achievable. That is why there has been a surge and uprise in Personal Assistant apps.

They’re all a stepping stone in becoming great experiences. They’re focused on delivering an experience where the ‘processing work’ happens behind the scenes. “As a consumer, why do I need to click through a form to tell you what I need? Is it because we’re still adapting old practices, or is it actually a better experience overall?”
I do believe some of these personal assistant apps are powered by manual work at the moment — but as these startups continue to capture more and more data, the opportunity to automate a lot of the manual work will become available. In the next 5 years, we are going to see technology become more integrated than ever, with experiences also becoming even more seamless. I am absolutely blown away by what the team over at Microsoft Cortana are doing!

I hope you’ve learnt a few things from this article and that you’re able to put these design thinking principles into practice. I challenge you, to start pushing yourself into exploring new ways of experiencing digital products. We’re in a digital age where lots of things are now possible. Don’t conform to patterns and trends, they don’t last.
I would love to hear some of the innovative experiences you’re exploring or have executed! Share them with me: innovation@mizko.net
Follow me on Twitter. Catch me on Facebook.

The first secret of design is … noticing:|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9uOMectkCCs
Disney’s $1 Billion Bet on a Magical Wristbandhttp://www.wired.com/2015/03/disney-magicband/
How Airbnb uses machine learning to detect host preferences:http://nerds.airbnb.com/host-preferences/
All about design
Hackerpreneur is a digital Magazine for iOS that explores the shifting landscape of work, creativity, design, startups and entrepreneurship.

It has been over three years since Steve Jobs died.
Since then, books have been written and movies have been made.
Each has celebrated his legacy and aimed to share the secrets he used to build the largest company in the world; things like attention to detail, attracting world-class talent and holding them to high standards.
We think we understand what caused his success.
We don’t.
We dismiss usable principles of success by labeling them as personality quirks.
What’s often missed is the paradoxical interplay of two of his seemingly opposite qualities; maniacal focus and insatiable curiosity. These weren’t just two random strengths. They may have been his most important as they helped lead to everything else.
Jobs’ curiosity fueled his passion and provided him with access to unique insights, skills, values, and world-class people who complemented his own skillset. Job’s focus brought those to bear in the world of personal electronics.
I don’t just say this as as someone who has devoured practically every article, interview, and book featuring him.
I say this as someone who has interviewed many of the world’s top network scientists on a quest to understand how networks create competitive advantage in business and careers.
The Simple Variable That Explains What Really Causes Career Success
In December of 2013, I interviewed one of the world’s top network scientists, Ron Burt. During it, he shared a chart that completely flipped my understanding of success. Here is a simplified version:
The bottom line? According to multiple, peer-reviewed studies, simply being in an open network instead of a closed one is the best predictor of career success.
In the chart, the further to the right you go toward a closed network, the more you repeatedly hear the same ideas, which reaffirm what you already believe. The further left you go toward an open network, the more you’re exposed to new ideas. People to the left are significantly more successful than those to the right.
In fact, the study shows that half of the predicted difference in career success (i.e., promotion, compensation, industry recognition) is due to this one variable.
Do you ever have moments where you hear something so compelling that you need to know more, yet so crazy that you’d have to let go of some of your core beliefs in order to accept the idea?
This was one of those moments for me. Never in all of the books I had read on self-help, career success, business, or Steve Jobs had I come across this idea.
I wondered, “How is it possible that the structure of one’s network could be such a powerful predictor for career success?
How A Closed Network Impacts Your Career
To understand the power of open networks, it’s important to understand their opposite.
Most people spend their careers in closed networks; networks of people who already know each other. People often stay in the same industry, the same religion, and the same political party. In a closed network, it’s easier to get things done because you’ve built up trust, and you know all the shorthand terms and unspoken rules. It’s comfortable because the group converges on the same ways of seeing the world that confirm your own.
To understand why people spend most of their time in closed networks, consider what happens when a group of random strangers is thrown together:
David Rock, the founder of the Neuroleadership Institute, the top organization helping leaders through neuroscience research, explains the process well:
By understanding this process, we can begin to understand why the world is the way it is. We understand why Democrats and Republicans can’t pass bills with obvious benefits to society. We understand why religions have gone to war over history. It helps us understand why we have bubbles, panics, and fads.
The Surprising Power And Pain Of Open Networks
People in open networks have unique challenges and opportunities. Because they’re part of multiple groups, they have unique relationships, experiences, and knowledge that other people in their groups don’t.
This is challenging in that it can lead to feeling like an outsider as a result of being misunderstood and under-appreciated because few people understand why you think the way you do. It is also challenging, because it requires assimilating different and conflicting perspectives into one worldview.
In one of my all-time favorite movies, The Matrix, the main character, Neo, is exposed to a completely new world. Once he is, he can’t go back. He’s an outsider in the new group, and he’s an outsider in his old life. He’s had an experience that everyone he’s ever met would never understand. This same phenomenon happens when we enter new worlds of people.
On the other hand, having an open network is a huge opportunity in a few ways:
The Revisionist Timeline Of Steve Jobs Success
As a result of pursuing his curiosity in different fields throughout his life, Steve Jobs developed an extremely unique perspective, skillset, and network; one that no one else in the computer industry had. He turned these unique advantages into the largest company in the world by having a razor sharp focus. Within Apple, he cut out people, products, and systems that weren’t world-class.
Many are quick to label parts of Steve Jobs’ life as the ‘lost’ or ‘wilderness’ years. However, when we view his life in retrospect, we see that his diversions were critical to his success.
What is labeled as the magic of Steve Jobs or the quirks of his character become replicable principles we can all follow.
It is from this vantage point that we can begin to understand the following quote from a Steve Jobs interview for Wired in 1995:
Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish.
Throughout human history, all societies including our own have created myths that share one common element, the hero’s journey.
Here’s what the journey looks like according to Joseph Campbell, the originator of the term…
Things are going great. You feel normal and fit in. Then something happens, and you change. You start to feel like an outsider in your own culture. You hide parts of yourself to fit in, but that doesn’t help. You feel called to leave and fulfill part of yourself, but that has a lot of uncertainty. So, you hesitate at first.
Finally, you take the plunge. You go through difficult times as you’re learning to navigate the new world. Finally, you overcome the challenges. Then, you go back to your old culture and have a huge impact because you share the unique insights you’ve learned.
The hero’s journey myth is embedded in everything from our society’s classic movies (i.e., Star Wars) to the heroes we glorify (i.e., Steve Jobs), because it hits on core parts of the human experience.
The field of network science shows us two things. (1) The hero’s journey is the blueprint for creating career success. (2) We can all be heroes. It just takes a little faith as you follow your heart and curiosity into unknown worlds. As Steve Jobs said, “You can’t connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. ”
— —
Other Related Article By Me
— —
I would love to hear your thoughts on how you build open networks! And if you enjoyed, please scroll down and click the “recommend” button.
— —
I write at MichaelDSimmons.com and am the co-founder of Empact. To receive more articles like this one, visit my blog.
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
For the majority of my child and adult life I never considered myself a “morning person.” I was a night owl. During my architecture school career I worked late through the night and slept in the mornings. When I started working at an Architecture firm, I conformed to getting up at 7am… but I didn’t enjoy it. I would get up as late as possible, skip breakfast, rush to work, and then feel like I was trying to catch up the rest of the day.
This type of routine will take its toll on your physical and mental well-being and majorly impact your productivity.
Now, I work from home for myself on various businesses, and I happily wake up around 5:30 am each day. Even on weekends, I’m usually up by 7 am. It could be that I’m enjoying the work I’m doing so much and am accountable to only myself; however, I think it has more to do with the fact that I’ve learned so much about how creating good habits and a morning routine are critical for lifetime success. A morning routine sets the tone for the whole day, and if you do each day right, you’ll do life right.
One of my goals for the beginning of this year was to get into a good morning routine in order to set myself up for the day. It started whenever I read The Miracle Morning by Hal Elrod in January. I knew that not having a good morning routine and feeling overwhelmed and disorganized were connected.
I needed to work smarter, not harder, and the first step was to create good habits.
The first thing I needed to do was quit the belief that I was a “night owl.”
Over the past several months I have been working on “habit stacking” to craft myself a good morning routine that works for me. Habit Stacking is a way to build a new habit into your life by stacking it on top of something you’re currently doing. For example, before I brush my teeth in the morning (current habit) I will meditate (new habit) for 3 minutes. I’ve discovered the personal ritual I have set up for myself has helped put me in the right mindset and offset any morning procrastination. Here’s a previous medium post I wrote about it.
Another great reason to create a morning ritual it is to avoid mental fatigue.
We only have a certain amount of energy and willpower when we wake up each morning, and it slowly gets drained away with decisions. This is especially true if you’re making hundreds of small decisions in the morning that mean nothing yet will affect how you make decisions for the remainder of the day. Try to have the first hour of your day vary as little as possible with a routine.
Avoiding mental fatigue is why Mark Zuckerberg wears the same thing everyday. Knowing exactly how the first 90 minutes of my day looks like is powerful, as it helps me feel in control and non-reactive, which in turn reduces anxiety and ensures I’m more productive throughout the day.

After 6–10 hours without any liquid, you need to rehydrate and wake yourself up. Drinking water is a great way to kickstart your metabolism, especially when it’s ice cold.
A little light stretching in the morning is all it takes to shake off grogginess and limber up for the day ahead. It only takes a few minutes but by doing basic stretches, here’s the ones I do. I use the 7 minute workout app.
When I first heard friends talk about taking cold showers in the morning, I thought they were nuts. Then one random day in mid-February I decided to try it. I’m not going to lie: it sucked. However, I felt so energized and alive after it that I’ve been doing it every day since. If you’re considering it, be prepared for discomfort at first, but also look forward to feeling more refreshed and alive than you have before. Also, it has numerous health benefits
Perhaps the most important part of my routine is clearing my mind so that I can gain focus for the day. I’m very new to meditation. I only added it to my daily life within the past 6 months.
I personally use the Muse headband because, as a beginner, I had trouble learning how to meditate and understand when my mind was drifting. The Muse detects my brain signals to let me know when my brain is calm and focused and when it is not. It is not essential for meditation. I have also heard great things about the app Headspace.
Since beginning the daily habit of meditation I have seen a big improvement in my focus, productivity, and stress levels for the rest of the day.
I’ve been doing bulletproof intermittent fasting since Oct./Nov. of last year, so I only drink BP Coffee in the morning. While the coffee is brewing, I use those few minutes to wash some dishes. No one could ever accuse me of being a “cleaner,” but I enjoy doing the dishes in the morning so I can think through my day. It also makes me feel like I have accomplished something already, which is a great way to start the day.
This 20 minutes of reading has been huge for me. Not only is it enjoyable, but reading books on mindset, personal growth, and business inspires me in the beginning of my day and gets the creative juices flowing. If you’re curious what I’m reading, you can see here.
This part of my morning routine was established more recently and is a creative process. It’s an activity of writing 750 words (around 3 pages) each morning. It’s not blogging or anything that I will ever release to the world. It’s a stream of consciousness of whatever is on my mind, essentially a brain dump on ideas for business, life, and other decisions. Whatever I want to clear my mind of, It gets my brain working and thinking more creatively.
Each morning I write down my goals. First, I write down a long-term goal that I’m working towards. I write this down each day to keep me mindful of my direction so that I don’t go off track. Then, I write down the day’s targets, which are what 3 things I need to accomplish to move me further toward my long-term goal. I usually have my 13-Week Roadmap planned ahead of time that has my goals broken down with a timeline. I’ll delve into this process in another post, but essentially it’s a planning structure so that I know what I should be working on for 3 months at a time. Interested in learning about this? Let me know.
I break down my day in 30 minute increments, enter any calls or appointments I have, and then schedule out my tasks for the day. I always put the most important (coincidentally usually the least enjoyable) first so that I ensure it gets done. I try to never book any meetings or appointments until late in the afternoon if I can help it because my mornings are my sacred hours of peak productivity.
Then I begin working.
I don’t look at my phone, email, facebook, or twitter until after I’ve completed that first big task of my day. I pause my inboxes the night before (using inbox pause) so that, in the morning, if I do need to send out any emails I can do so without being bombarded with any incoming mail. Remember, email is someone else’s request of your time. Prioritize your goals and tasks first before looking at email so you don’t go into reactive mode as opposed to proactive mode.
My morning routine takes just over an hour. I can’t stress enough to you the importance of a great morning routine, as it will set you up for a successful day — and life. With that said, what I do isn’t for everyone. I experimented with a few different things and figured out what worked for me. You should do the same. Soon you’ll know what things work for you, and you’ll enjoy starting your day.
I’d love to hear about your morning routine if you have one. What does the first hour of your day look like?

Cathryn Lavery is a serial entrepreneur dedicated to helping others become their Best Self.
Want to build a morning routine like hers? Use the Self Journal to structure your day and reach any goal faster. It’s live on Kickstarter now


Serial Entrepreneur — Founder of CalmTheHam.com & BestSelf.co
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

I’ve written and rewritten this blog in my head several times over the past few months. As many of you know, I have been recovering from anorexia since April. I was at an Ivy League school, a D-1 athlete and should have been living my dream. Nobody expected me to end up in the hospital with an eating disorder freshman year, especially me. Now that I have had an abundance of time to reflect on the past few years, I understand what precipitated my eating disorder and have gained a new perspective on the world around me as it relates to eating, health and body image.
I have always been a perfectionist in everything I do, pushing myself to my limit and beyond no matter what the endeavor, large or small. In high school I wanted to be a straight A student, a D-1 athlete and, sadly, more important than all, I wanted to be skinny. I followed rules from my parents, rubrics from my teachers, and directions from my coaches to the letter. So in my junior year of high school when my club gymnastics coach told me I needed to lose ten pounds, I was determined to do exactly as he said. At the time, like many girls my age, I was already having body image issues and confusing puberty with getting “fat”. Thinking I was doing what was needed, I began to throw up after dinner. It didn’t take long before I began purging twice a day but I convinced myself that I didn’t have a problem since I never binge ate and only ate “healthy” foods. I began constantly to compare my body to others. I followed fitness and health food accounts on Instagram and became obsessed with being as fit as possible. Despite how close I was to my friends and family, no one knew what was swirling inside my head. And I had absolutely no idea that I was suffering from anorexia.
By the time I got to college last fall, I decided I wanted to stop the purging and feel “normal” again. I focused instead on becoming even more fit. I began doing extra cardio daily in addition to my hours of gymnastics, and constantly felt like there was something more I could do. I gave into the “gluten free” fad and descended down a slippery slope of eliminating all the “bad” foods from my diet. I downloaded a calorie counter on my phone and I told myself If I was going to be healthy, I was going to be as healthy as possible. I mainly ate salads — and took the dressing off. I drank tons of water to fill myself up. I stopped putting milk in my coffee. My favorite foods — avocados, sushi, peanut butter, bread — became fear foods. I no longer ate carbs, and eventually even the calories in gum seemed to be too much for me. How ironic that my “healthy” lifestyle was nearly killing me.
As I began to get sicker, I pulled away from my friends and family. I obsessed over how I appeared in Instagram and Facebook photos. Around February, I began avoiding eating with people and I was constantly tired, unhappy and cold. My hair was falling out in clumps and my skin was dry and dead looking. I struggled to socialize because all I could think about was food and exercise. The way I looked and what I ate became the most important part of my life. As I deprived my body of nutrients, I deprived my brain (which is normally 60% fat), thus making rational decisions nearly impossible. I was able to convince myself and others that I didn’t have a problem by disguising my food restriction as self discipline. Nobody knew or noticed. I was competing for my team and earning straight A’s. I was even getting compliments on my appearance. By March, I had deemed almost all foods “bad” except egg whites and greens. I thought of myself as healthier than everyone around me. Little did I know that I had a resting heart rate of 30 and was at risk for cardiac arrest.
In April, the “gradual” weight loss abruptly became drastic. My kidneys were failing and my organs were shutting down. My body was deep in starvation mode. Finally I recognized how weak and sick I felt and I was scared. My mom was shocked by my Facebook pictures. Still, I didn’t connect my symptoms with my eating habits until my mom arrived on a red-eye, helped me navigate the healthcare system and I was admitted into the ICU. On April 15th, I began the toughest chapter of my life thus far: recovery.
I spent two and a half weeks in the hospital, much of it on strict bed-rest with continuous monitoring of my heart and other vitals, during the initial slow, steady, often painful, refeeding process. When my heart rate was finally stable, I was discharged and placed on a strict meal plan, implemented by my mother. Once the body has experienced starvation and the nearly fatal process of shutting down, even a small weight loss can trigger the whole process again, even many months after weight has been restored. Eating five or six meals a day is nearly impossible to do alone: recovery from anorexia requires the full support of family. I was able to finish those last five weeks of my freshman year because my mother prepared and served the six meals a day prescribed by my doctors. But I arrived home only to be hospitalized again for a week. Just the increased activity and slight diet change while packing up and flying home had sent my heart rate plunging again.
It was easier for me to be motivated to start eating again when I was in the hospital setting and so clearly sick. As I have gotten better, I have become more aware of how much of my daily life as a young woman, a college student, and an athlete, encourages disordered eating. As soon as I began recovery, I unfollowed all food and health accounts on Instagram and deleted my snapchat in order to quiet the noise about weight loss and fitness that surrounds so much of today’s media. I needed to stop seeing what other people were eating, or what they were doing for exercise or how they looked in their gym clothes. I just needed to get better.
After two hospitalizations, I really understand how dangerous it is to try and alter your own body. If I look frail and bony at age eighteen, how am I going to look when I’m 60? Or how about 80? Will I even make it to 80? The thought itself is scary. In order to stay healthy, I have to remember that good health is something that is continuous and cannot be compared to others. This is my one body; we don’t get “re-do’s” when it comes to our own genetics and it may sound crazy but when I was sick this thought didn’t occur to me. I only cared about changing my body in the immediate and how I looked in the moment. If I felt full, I was fat. If I was hungry, I was skinny and there was nothing in between. Everything about eating and my body image felt urgent and dire, like eating the yolk of an egg would suddenly cause my pants to tighten or that obesity was going to sneak up on me one hour after eating a scoop of ice cream. I never thought about the effect that trying to change my outward appearance had on my heart, kidneys and long-term health.
Now I cringe when I hear someone mention how they want to go “gluten free” to lose weight. Or how they want to go “ano” for two weeks to get a beach body. I struggle to walk into places like Panera Bread or Starbucks where they have calories plastered next to every item. They fuel the ideas that precipitate eating disorders: that some foods are “bad”, or that we are supposed to feel guilty after eating a calorically dense food or that we have to earn our foods before we eat them. Food is food and it is not something that needs to be earned. Our bodies need a balanced diet regardless of whether we exercised that day or not.
So, as many of my classmates and friends have travelled this summer, held prestigious internships or taken summer courses, I’ve been recovering. I have spent my summer in doctors’ offices and labs and therapy sessions week after week and it has been as exhausting and taxing as a full-time job. My hair has slowly stopped falling out, my skin has light in it again, and I’ve gotten stronger. Even though I have been recovering for almost four months now, I still have to carefully manage my intake and exercise to be sure that my heart rate and blood pressure don’t drop. It shocked me to learn that even after regaining the weight I lost, my body still has so much more healing to do. I will be working hard at my recovery for a long time.
As terrifying and hard as many moments of this process have been so far, the main thing I feel is relief. Rather than wishing to be skinny, I wish for happiness. Rather than admiring girls whose bones show, I admire girls who can eat foods they enjoy without anguish. I wish to be able to get an ice cream cone with my little nieces and nephew and not cry inside. I wish fully and mindfully to experience college and life, not just see how it makes me appear on Instagram. But most of all, I wish for health and I wish to never damage my body again.
Brown University ‘18, avocado and redwood tree loving, Public Health major. This is my (rocky) journey to a life free of Anorexia Nervosa 🌻
Home to some of the best articles on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.

1. If I don’t create, I won’t affect the world around me.
2. Writing is the minimum viable product of my life.
3. There’s no despair that can’t be held at bay with words.
4. When people ask what I do, I have something to point to.
5. Having a career and paying bills is treading water for me – writing gives me a purpose.
6. I have stories I need to tell and beliefs I need to share.
7. Writing can change lives, and there are lives that need to be changed.
8. If I don’t challenge myself, I will atrophy – without writing, my legacy would be a very well curated Netflix library.
9. My writing is my own roadmap – it helps me find my way.
10. I write to meet people and to connect with others who I might never have had any contact with otherwise.
11. Some might say sharing and creating the written word is the entire point of the Internet.
12. Because I fucking love the way simple letters look on a minimalist background.
13. Writing is the only career that has ever felt right to me. When I write I belong.
15. All my family write. And always have. It connects us all.
16. Writing enables me to discover things about myself that I never knew.
17. Right now, we are drafting the future of digital publishing – I wouldn’t trade my place in that for anything.
18. Writing is its own form of innovation.
19. Writing is a skill that can be applied to and is needed by every industry, technology and platform.
20. Being able to write is one of the greatest accomplishments of humanity.
21. My girlfriend likes writers ;)
22. Writing demonstrates more than just an ability to put words on a page – it shows dedication, project management and marketing. It can be a point of professional differentiation.
23. Writing can help me relax and breathe and take stock of my life.
24. People want and need great content, they’re reaching out for it and searching for it.
25. No matter how old I get, even when I’m too weak to do much else, I’ll be able to write.
26. It stops me from being bored in a way that TV can never quite match.
27. Because there are some incredible words out there that are fucking fun to write. Like floccinaucinihilipilification. I don’t even know what that means, but I love it.
28. My thoughts are my own and could never come the same way from anyone else. Because everyone is unique. That’s amazing.
29. Because it gives me something to do on the train.
30. I want people to one day look up to me the way I look up to the writers that I love and respect. I know that sounds egotistical, but I don’t care. It’s honest.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

One week ago, a man brought a gun into a movie theater in Lafayette, Louisiana at the showing of comedian and actress Amy Schumer’s new film Trainwreck. Below is an open letter I have written to her in response:
~
Dear Amy Schumer,
This week, #Aurora and #Lafayette were trending on Twitter at the same time; one tragedy was just closing in court and one was just beginning in a theater. All of this transpired on social media just as we marked the one month anniversary since a mass shooting in #Charleston — yes, that was a hashtag, too.
All of this may seem like it’s playing out on your computer — a safe world away from where you live and work in Hollywood. But as a woman, a daughter and sister, a national figure, and a role model, you have a real stake in gun violence happening all around you.
Your movie — which was so well-received, so brilliant, so you — will now forever have this shooting attached to it. You’ve been caught in the middle of our country’s terrifying, unending war with itself, our sick and twisted relationship with the gun lobby, which tells us we need guns for anyone, anywhere, anytime. Search your movie “Trainwreck” on Google and a scroll-down suggestion will now be “Trainwreck shooting.”
A showing of your film — an honest, unapologetic celebration of women’s rights to our bodies, decisions, and independence — was the place a middle-aged man who, “opposed to women having a say in anything,” chose to commit a mass shooting.
I know the guilt, the sadness, the hole in your heart you’re feeling. I know the crushing anxiety you have for Jillian Johnson and Mayci Breaux and their families. I know the sudden feeling that you are not safe anywhere anymore, the numbness that whisks through your limbs and makes you forget that you’re human and that you’re in control. I know all of this. Not because I was in your exact shoes, but because I own a different make of them.
2012 was the worst year of my life. It was the year America saw the shooting of Trayvon Martin, the shooting in Aurora, the shooting at the Sikh Temple in Wisconsin, the shooting of Jordan Davis, the shooting at the mall in Portland, and the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School.
My mother survived that last one.
Six of her colleagues — all women — were killed, as were 20 first-graders. After the shooting, I dedicated my life’s work to gun violence prevention, and what I noticed immediately was that women are taking the reins in the movement. From the voices of mothers who lost their children to those of daughters who lost their mothers. From the calls to action by young women on campuses to women who work and are raising children they want to protect, in communities of all types. Women have truly begun to lead the gun violence prevention movement — and they are winning.
Women are our teachers, our protectors, our shielders. Women weep in public and in private for the lives we’ve lost, and they’re not afraid to scream at the cameras and go toe-to-toe with monsters who perpetuate these crimes on the streets and in boardrooms. Women are very simply the ultimate moral base in our battles for peace and justice throughout the world.
Women also bear the brunt of the harassment and violence perpetrated against our movement. The hatred and trolling of women fighting for gun reform is specifically twisted to become gendered threats and attacks. They reference rape, “setting us in our place,” obeying men and shutting us up, and overall they simply exemplify the worst of a patriarchy obsessed with the symbol and purpose of guns.
Of course, these extremists are barely a fraction of gun owners in America. But this very vocal minority is very afraid because what we’re advocating is — in their minds — the ultimate emasculation. Women telling men to tone it down with their guns, showing them real data that proves guns don’t actually make them safer. They feel vulnerable and so they call us names to shame us. They use their arsenals and state-willed unregulated access to guns to threaten us.
In the past few months, you produced a fake commercial for an episode of your show that makes a striking point about gun accessibility and the idiocy of our country’s thought processes on issues disproportionately affecting our generation. After a young woman (you) must go through an array of people to get approval to use birth control, the pharmacist reluctantly gives her the pills. She walks away shocked and disgruntled. Then a boy, maybe 10 years old, comes to the front desk and asks for a gun. The pharmacist slings one across to him and says, “Here you go! And remember, it’s your right!”
You get it.
All of these problems — the disgusting comments and harassment we receive on Twitter and other social media platforms, the obsession of many mass shooters (see the Isla Vista case) with anti-feminism and anti-women ideals, the over-idolization of firearms and fetishization of what they stand for, and the easy access to guns all stem from the same group of core ideologies that we must work to shut down.
We must shut them down because every day in the United States, five women are murdered with a gun. Women in our country are 11 times more likely to be murdered with a gun than women in other high-income countries. And from 2001 through 2012, 6,410 women were murdered in the United States by an intimate partner using a gun — more than the total number of U.S. troops killed in action during the entirety of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars combined. Women of color are particularly disproportionately impacted by gun violence. These are mothers, daughters, sisters, our best friends.
This is the experience of women in a country overshadowed by rampant, targeted gun violence and fear and hatred of women by people who are armed. This is not freedom — at least not for women.
Amy Schumer, I and many other Millennials look up to you so much. You are our generation’s epitome of what it means to be a strong, powerful, self-aware champion for the experiences and truths of being a woman and an American today. I admire your unapologetic, unwavering stature and your ability to laugh at yourself while actually pinning the joke on the audience to address often uncomfortable truths. In fact, I have nearly memorized the very end of the speech you gave at the Ms. Gala award ceremony. You said:
“I am a woman with thoughts and questions and shit to say. I say if I’m beautiful. I say if I’m strong. You will not determine my story — I will. I will speak… and I will never apologize to the frightened millions who resent that they never had it in them to do it. I stand here and I am amazing, for you. Not because of you… I am myself. And I am all of you…”
I know deep down that the tweet you sent after the shooting was not all that you’ve got. And we need your voice in this movement. We need your help.
Join your colleagues Sarah Silverman and Kristen Schaal. Join our movement. Write an op-ed. Support an organization. Demand change. Be a voice for our generation and for women — two groups who make up most of the victims of the gun violence in our country.
As you said and as I’ve learned, what truly matters in life is how you decide to write your own story. And in doing so, don’t apologize to the frightened millions who resent that they never had it in them to do it. Instead, show them it can be done.
Daughter of Sandy Hook survivor, student activist for safer communities, gun violence prevention advocate. #Fight4AFuture #Fight4The33 #NotOneMore
humandevelopmentgroup.org

Forget overpriced schools, long days in a crowded classroom, and pitifully poor results. These websites and apps cover myriads of science, art, and technology topics. They will teach you practically anything, from making hummus to building apps in node.js, most of them for free. There is absolutely no excuse for you not to master a new skill, expand your knowledge, or eventually boost your career. You can learn interactively at your own pace and in the comfort of your own home. It’s hard to imagine how much easier it can possibly be. Honestly, what are you waiting for?




edX — Take online courses from the world’s best universities.
Coursera — Take the world’s best courses, online, for free.
Coursmos — Take a micro-course anytime you want, on any device.
Highbrow — Get bite-sized daily courses to your inbox.
Skillshare — Online classes and projects that unlock your creativity.
Curious — Grow your skills with online video lessons.
lynda.com — Learn technology, creative and business skills.
CreativeLive — Take free creative classes from the world’s top experts.
Udemy — Learn real world skills online.




Codecademy — Learn to code interactively, for free.
Stuk.io — Learn how to code from scratch.
Udacity — Earn a Nanodegree recognized by industry leaders.
Platzi — Live streaming classes on design, marketing and code.
Learnable — The best way to learn web development.
Code School — Learn to code by doing.
Thinkful — Advance your career with 1-on-1 mentorship.
Code.org — Start learning today with easy tutorials.
BaseRails — Master Ruby on Rails and other web technologies.
Treehouse — Learn HTML, CSS, iPhone apps & more.
One Month — Learn to code and build web applications in one month.
Dash — Learn to make awesome websites.




DataCamp — Online R tutorials and data science courses.
DataQuest — Learn data science in your browser.
DataMonkey — Develop your analytical skills in a simple, yet fun way.




Duolingo — Learn a language for free.
Lingvist — Learn a language in 200 hours.
Busuu — The free language learning community.
Memrise — Use flashcards to learn vocabulary.




TED-Ed — Find carefully curated educational videos
Khan Academy — Access an extensive library of interactive content.
Guides.co — Search the largest collection of online guides.
Squareknot — Browse beautiful, step-by-step guides.
Learnist — Learn from expertly curated web, print and video content.
Prismatic — Learn interesting things based on social recommendation.




Chesscademy — Learn how to play chess for free.
Pianu — A new way to learn piano online, interactively.
Yousician— Your personal guitar tutor for the digital age.

UPDATE: Full list including the best of your suggestions can be also found here.

Written by @kristynazdot, founder and CEO of maqtoob.com — app discovery platform for inspiring entrepreneurs. At the moment, it features 1,500+ handpicked tools for startups, small businesses, and freelancers.
and she was that girl who wanted to be happy | CEO @maqtoobtools
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
I never in my life thought I would be writing an article like this.
As many people know I am a strong supporter of AirBNB. Over the last 2+ years, I have hosted over 700 guests in my house and been an ambassador to AirBNB in so many ways, from presenting at a dozen local events educating new hosts, helping new guests become familiar with the platform, writing articles, going on podcasts, running TravelersChat, a Slack community for AirBNB hosts and currently developing a small SaaS app to help hosts. This year I was to speak at the AirBNB Open in Paris, my trip was being paid for by AirBNB. (airfare & accommodation). That’s why the past few days events are so surprising to me.
I wrote this throughout the last few days as this all happened. I wanted to give AirBNB a chance to correct it or give me a real answer before I hit publish. Since they have fallen silent I feel this is my last option to bring attention to this.
9:25 AM, August 14th, 2015
My phone rings with a San Francisco number, the person asked for me by name and said he was calling from AirBNB. I was a little tired, I had woken up at 6:30 AM to let some arriving guests in. But I perked up out of my bed, thinking it must be something about AirBNB Open coming in November. Then the person on the other end of the phone said…
The monotone voice continued to read a short script, telling me my account will be terminated on August 15th. I repeatedly asked why, the voice simply said they would follow up with an email. I was in complete shock, my brain was racing everywhere and I literally started trembling. What the heck is going on?
This is the vague email I received from them minutes after the call.
I have replied three times to the email. I got back a single nearly identical reply with no reason as to their actions.
9:30 AM, August 14th, 2015
I immediately called the country manager for AirBNB. She couldn’t tell me anything, saying that AirBNB HQ didn’t tell her the reason, just that she was aware of it a few days ago and she “fought” for me.
I logged into my account and started looking around. I noticed they had already started canceling reservations and credited my account for the $2,374. Which is just under 50% of future earnings, probably because my cancelation policy is set to strict.
I am absolutely crushed. I have no idea what I could have possibly done wrong. They will not even tell me. I have given so much to the AirBNB community.
My account is to be terminated on August 15th, but I still have to honor guests until next week. Am I even covered under AirBNB’s insurance since they canceled my account & liability?
I have already received multiple emails from guests that were to stay at my place asking why I canceled them. Throughout the day, I replied to them all like this:
I have no idea, no explanation, I feel bad for the guests that were looking forward to a smooth stay on their vacation and now have to deal with this at the last minute.
2:01 PM, August 14th, 2015
I decided to email all three of the founders directly. So far I have not received a response.
This is a letter I sent to the AirBNB founders.
3:16 PM, August 14th, 2015
After I sent this email, I also got a call from my country manager again, she gave me a specific email address to write to. The “Trust & Safety Department”. I sent basically the same email as above.
So far the emails have been opened and read over 350 times, from multiple places around the world. Who knows who these email addresses really go to.
3:46 PM, August 14th, 2015
After looking around on my account trying to see what is going on I see that an iPhone has been logging in all over the USA for 2 months. I have never left Bangkok. I immediately change my password and log out all the sessions on the AirBNB website. I also sent an email to the country manager with the screenshot.
The country manager replied saying she cannot provide any details and I should email another person from now on.
I sent the same email to that new person and also the above screenshot. That person has read the email but never replied.
6:22 PM, August 14th, 2015
The country manager calls me and asks me to coffee at 7:30 PM, and sent an email to me to confirm the meeting.
I go to the coffee shop where she arrives with another person from AirBNB Singapore office. He has just heard about my termination a few hours before. He told me that one of the things that he wanted to do in Thailand was meet me because I am such a huge supporter of AirBNB.
The meeting was basically them telling me they are just as shocked as I am and that they have no clue of what’s going on. We talked about the situation, the whole time my mind is swirling. They offered to buy me dinner, I got an ice tea, I couldn’t eat. After about 30 minutes, I decided to leave. They said they would continue to try and get to the bottom of this. We hugged, said our goodbyes and parted ways, me feeling like I have lost a good friend in addition to my AirBNB hosting job. I just felt sick and no further along than before.
4:26 PM, August 15th, 2015
I received an email that the guest who was to check-in on Monday no longer needs accommodation and the inquiry is now closed. It wasn’t an inquiry but a full booking. I logged into my AirBNB account and see the other guests that were to arrive are now canceled and the funds no longer show as future payouts, not even for 50%. One more guest that is checking on August 15th is still showing as a reservation.
Tell you what, my last guest is going to be treated like royalty.
9:06 PM, August 15th, 2015
I decided to send another message to the founders.
10:45 PM, August 15th, 2015
I greeted my final guests into my home, who would be here for two days, leaving on Monday. Meeting them just outside as the taxi dropped them off. We said our hellos and went inside. I showed them how the house’s electronic door & lighting works. As they said hellos to my cats I carried their bag up to their room. I answered a few questions of where things were and how to get around in Bangkok. Making sure they were all settled in I went in my bedroom to get some rest.
8:36 AM, August 16th, 2015
A guest thats been with me for five days checks out while I am still sleeping. They send me an SMS saying thanks for the enjoyable stay.
10:59 PM, August 16th, 2015
I finally received a reply from one of the Founders. Made me feel like something is moving forward, otherwise why reply at all. Immediately after receiving this another email came in from a Michelle said one-word “Reviewing”.

10:00 AM, August 16th, 2015
My last ever guest leaves the house. For the first time my house feels really big and empty.
6:50 PM, August 17th, 2015
Hoping things would be getting fixed now. I decided to leave my reply until Monday evening.
I also sent a quick email to Michelle.
10:50 AM, August 18th, 2015
Still no reply from Michelle, so I sent my a last follow up email.

I have received no quality replies from AirBNB. Not only have I been kicked out of a community I loved, promoted and cared for, but I have lost a substantial portion amount of my monthly income that I depended on.
This very much saddens me, since I have no idea what the reason is, I can only speculate. I have spent hours going over everything & anything in my head, I have drawn a complete blank. Was a guest not happy? Did another host report my account for some reason?
If it was a guest that reported me for something, I would have thought I would be able to correct it. I treat every guest with the utmost respect and dignity, so a complaint like from a guest seems unlikely.
What in the world could I have possibly done to deserve such a drastic move on AirBNB’s part?
If it is so severe to terminate my account, why let more guests stay at my house after my termination date?
I thought the sharing economy was about just that: sharing, transparency and making the world better collectively?
I poured a great deal of myself & time into supporting AirBNB. I have no idea what steps I should take next, this is completely baffling to me. I still feel this is a horrible mistake, total misunderstanding or misinterpreted policy. Surely this was not the company Brian and Joe set out to build when they could barely pay their rent.
If you found any value in this, it would be great of you to scroll down and hit that “Recommend” button. Also “Follow” me to stay updated.

Hi, my name is Kelly Kampen, founder of Dojo, a streetwear company with a mission. Great threads & giving back: 10% of every purchase goes to causes and charities all over the world. I also do Business Development for Oozou an awesome Ruby on Rails development agency. Coming to Bangkok? Stay at my place.Want to talk? Drop me a line at kelly<at>do/dot/jo
Entrepreneur, LifeHacker, AirBNB Superhost, Founder of @DojoThreads Dojo Threads & Gear http://do.jo, Biz Dev @Oozou a Ruby on Rails Agency http://oozou.com
This is my adventrues and thoughts on being an AirBNB Superhost
Here are the lessons I learned building a company to 500 people and $7B in transactions while raising $125M along the way.
I love reading blogs by founders who try to give back and share what they’ve learned building their companies, so today I’ll try and do the same.
When I look back over the last 15 years building 4 different companies (most recently Bigcommerce), here are some things I’d do different if I was to start another company, as well as a few things I wouldn’t change.
If you’re just getting started, keep in mind that it’s at least a 7–10 year journey, so when the going gets tough I found it can be useful to get some perspective from other founders who have gone down the same path.
Stay focused, be positive and know that even when you “get big” it’s still a roller coaster of ups, downs, highs, lows, fun and fu*ks. That’s why having a big, compelling vision and building a great team around you is so important.
Here’s my list. I hope you find it useful.
Things I’d do differently
Things I’d do again
Read more posts like this at my personal blog, BlogMitch.com or follow me on Twitter @mitchellharper
I like building, advising and investing in software companies. Most recently @Bigcommerce co-founder. I also blog at BlogMitch.com
Earlier this week, an interview with the actor Cara Delevingne made the rounds online. In it, the anchors of “Good Day Sacramento” refer to her as “Carla” and then ask her whether she read the novel Paper Towns. (She stars in the film adaptation.)
The interview goes downhill from there, with the interviewers suggesting that she is tired, and that she is not adequately excited about the opportunity to be on Good Day Sacramento, which is the #1 morning show in literally all of Sacramento, and then they tell her to take a nap and cut the interview short.
I am friends with Cara, and the author of the book in question. I spent more than a month with her on tour in Europe and the U.S., and I watched as again and again, she was asked this question. Cara has read the book (multiple times), but the question is annoying — not least because her male costar, Nat Wolff, was almost always asked when he’d read the book, while Cara was almost always asked if she’d read it.
In the past two months, I’ve done something like 300 on-camera interviews. As you get asked the same questions again and again, you develop rote responses as a way of protecting yourself. The rote responses are true — the cast really was like a family; we really are all still friends — but in the repetition, the answers start to feel less and less honest.
For example, I was asked in most interviews how involved I was in the film, and I told the truth, which is that I did basically nothing and sat around all day eating Cheetos and telling everyone they were doing a good job. And then Nat would jump in and say, “John’s being modest. His understanding of the story and characters were vital to us.” But because we were reciting lines more than answering questions, the answer started to feel dishonest to me. At one point between interviews, I said to Nat, “I can’t remember if I even like Cheetos.” And he said, “That’s okay, man. I can’t remember if your understanding of the story was vital to us.”
Look, these are obviously the first worldiest of first world problems, but the whole process of commodifying personhood to sell movie tickets is inherently dehumanizing. The TV people want some part of you, and in exchange for it, they will put the name of your movie on TV. But in that process, you do lose something of your self. (For the record, I don’t get the feeling that the journalists asking the same questions over and over particularly savor the experience, either. But they need their sit-down interview, and we need our publicity, and so the wheel spins on.)
There are bigger problems in the world — in fact, almost every problem in the world is bigger — but if people are going to pay attention to these junket interviews and criticize Cara for responding flippantly to a stupid question, I think context might be helpful.
I was lucky to share most of my interviews with Nat, one of my closest and most trusted friends, and to learn from him how to deal with uncomfortable questions. (For instance, when asked is X a good kisser, or is X is a better kisser than Y, Nat gently explains that he doesn’t answer questions about kissing, because the women he works with should be talked about for their performances in the film not for their kissing.) But I never really got good at junketry. I just sort of gave up.
Like, there’s a line in the beginning of the novel: “Everyone gets a miracle.” The male narrator of the story believes his miracle is Margo Roth Spiegelman, the character Cara plays in the movie. Later in the book, the boy realizes that Margo is not a miracle, that she is just a person, and that his imagining her as a miracle has been terribly hurtful to them both. But still, I was asked over a hundred times, “Who’s your miracle?” At first, I tried to fight it, tried to argue that we must see people as people, that we must learn to imagine them complexly instead of idealizing them, that the romantic male gaze is limiting and destructive to women. That’s the whole point of the story to me.
But eventually, I just started to say, “My miracle is my wife.” (And then Nat would deadpan, “My miracle is also John’s wife. She’s great.”) In the end, rather than fight, I stuck to the script.
Cara, however, refuses to stick to the script. She refuses to indulge lazy questions and refuses to turn herself into an automaton to get through long days of junketry. I don’t find that behavior entitled or haughty. I find it admirable. Cara Delevingne doesn’t exist to feed your narrative or your news feed — and that’s precisely why she’s so fucking interesting.
I write books, including Looking for Alaska and The Fault in Our Stars. (Books are like tweets, except longer.) I also make videos with my brother.
Eu particularmente estou um pouco cansada de ler tantos textos falando mal da minha geração. Tenho vinte e poucos, sou parte da geração Y, millennials, ou sei lá qual é o nome mais hype que estão atribuindo no momento. Tento compreender isso como aquele fenômeno de que toda geração acha que é melhor do que a próxima, mas penso que certos estereótipos que estão sendo criados não valem a pena.
Rolam por aí ideias de que a nossa geração é preguiçosa, de que a gente quer conquistar tudo sem trabalhar duro por isso, de que achamos que somos especiais, e finalmente a mais esquista de todas: a de que não sabemos nos relacionar com as pessoas. Somos superficiais, interesseiros, falta amor. Por causa do Tinder, do Facebook, do Twitter, do botão unfriend e das altas taxas de divórcios.
Então vou dividir com o mundo os meus vinte centavos sobre o assunto: o grande problema é que a gente sabe se relacionar de uma forma mais livre, menos dramática e com menos firulas do que as gerações anteriores. E vou explicar por quê: nós estamos quebrando protocolos sociais.
Sabe aquele seu Tio Francis que despreza seu sonho de trabalhar com desenvolvimento de videogames e sempre que tem a chance fala mal do seu cabelo? Então, ao contrário do que dizem seus outros parentes, Tio Francis não te ama. Esse não é o jeitinho dele de demonstrar afeto. Ele não fala essas coisas porque se preocupa com o seu futuro. Tio Francis é apenas um escroto. Ele gosta de te colocar pra baixo.
Os nossos pais, tios e avós tem o costume de dar muita corda pro Tio Francis, tanto o seu, quanto os Tios Francis individuais de cada um deles. Mandam felicidades no aniversário, fazem reuniões de família para visitá-lo, montam grupo no WhatsApp pra compartilhar umas piadas sem graça e trocadilhos infames feitos com emojis. Essa relação com o Tio Francis, que só traz amargura pra sua vida (seja na forma de reprovação da sua profissão, de desprezo pela sua escolha religiosa ou orientação sexual, de comentários infelizes a respeito da pessoa que você ama) é empurrada com a barriga pra manter aparências e status quo.
E quem se fode nessa equação? Vocezinha(o), que tem que manter na sua vida relações horrorosas baseadas numa eterna punheta social por algum motivo bizarro, como para não machucar os sentimentos da Vovó Matilda, que é mãe do Tio Francis. Ou porque vai ficar chato pro seu irmão, que trabalha na firma dele. Pra quem não sacou até agora, Tio Francis é uma metáfora pra qualquer amigo, “primo de consideração”, parente, namorado ou colega de trabalho. Às vezes, Tio Francis é aquele cara que emprestou uma grana pro seu pai quando ele tava falido. Outras, ele é aquele primo que é racista e homofóbico, mas-é-um-amor-de-pessoa.
E aí que tá: as pessoas da nossa geração não estão dispostas a participar disso. A gente tá de saco cheio de preservar relações tóxicas por causa dos pudores ou pendências de outrem. Nós cortamos o laço mesmo, porque a gente não precisa disso pra viver. Não vamos telefonar, não vamos na festinha de aniversário e com alegria perderemos aquela oportunidade única de visitar o Tio Francis. Não queremos casamentos falidos pra manter aparências, amizades sanguessugas, relações familiares que te consomem e te fazem sentir a criatura mais inútil do planeta. Precisamos, sim, de gente que nos ama, que nos ampara, que aceita as nossas maluquices, ambições e júbilo ao compartilhar um post de gatinhos vestidos como personagens de Game of Thrones.
Aquele papo de que relacionamentos exigem sacrifícios, de que o amor dói mesmo, que relações são difíceis e exigentes, pra gente não tá mais colando. O que é querido, o que eu prezo e quero perto de mim, não é pra machucar. Não é pra doer nem pra me fazer sofrer, é pra ser gostoso, é pra dar aconchego, harmonia e tesão. A gente curte o amor-pássaro do Rubem Alves, que é livre para voar, mas daí pra ele cagar periodicamente na nossa cabeça já não dá.
As nossas relações, pra quem vem de outro background (que carrega consigo outros costumes e hábitos), podem parecer vazias e apenas virtuais, mas não são. Nós encontramos pessoas queridas com tanta frequência como se fazia antigamente? Talvez sim, talvez não. Eu vejo meus amigos mais próximos uma vez por semana. Outros, nunca vi pessoalmente, conheço só pela internet. O que posso dizer é que esses laços são muito intensamente vividos e aproveitados; o nosso tempo (que é raro, porque a gente trabalha pra cacete num sistema falsamente meritocrático e contraprodutivo inventado por pessoas como o Tio Francis) é gasto naquilo que realmente nos interessa e com pessoas que de fato nos fazem sentir bem.
A gente também não se sente culpado por ter relações curtas. Qual o problema de transar com aquele cara do Tinder e nunca mais ligar, se vocês só queriam sexo mesmo? Ou aquela amizade de verão maravilhosa, que foi boa enquanto durou? Pra que tentar ficar achando significado e profundidade em lugares que não precisam disso? A gente já superou o carpe diem, o neoqeav, o nada-acontece-por-acaso e estamos em paz com a noção de que relações humanas não duram — e nem precisam durar — para sempre. E isso não significa que somos frios, afinal a gente faz vaquinha virtual pra financiar o projeto artístico, intercâmbio e cirurgia do cachorro de gente que nem conhecemos.
Portanto, caros antecessores e precedentes, acho legal avaliar e compreender que fazer as coisas de um jeito diferente do de vocês (e isso vale pra relações humanas, formação, empregos e modus operandi no geral) não significa fazer errado. Pode ser que a gente queira abraçar o mundo, salvar todos os golfinhos e criar o milésimo grupo de apoio para algum problema (sério, vocês já viram quantos a gente faz?). Mas talvez a motivação pra falar tão mal da nossa geração seja, bem lá no fundo, o desejo de ter a nossa fluidez.
Formada em publicidade e ainda não sabe o que fazer com isso.
Some years ago, right after we caught our breath from the financial crisis, I took my then-young-teenaged son to dinner to celebrate the end of the school year. He got to choose the restaurant; naturally, he chose a steak house.
As we were being seated, I recognized Dick Fuld. The Dick Fuld. Former CEO of Lehman Brothers, whom I had covered as a research analyst at Bernstein. I stopped, said hello, met his daughter, and introduced my son.
As we walked to our table, I thought, “Great. A teaching moment.”
When we sat, I said, “Honey, that was Dick Fuld and he…”
My son cut me off…with energy. “You don’t have to tell me who Dick Fuld is. I know who Dick Fuld is! He shouldn’t be at dinner; he should be in jail!!” He went on and on and on…..about the financial crisis, about the collapse of Lehman Brothers, about his views on greed on Wall Street. I kid you not. These were not topics we were discussing at home, though we had certainly been living the financial crisis. I thought he was too young to “get it” or have any interest.
And, let’s just say, his views on Wall Street were not positive.
Uh-oh, I thought.
I said to him, “Honey, you know I work on Wall Street, don’t you?”
His reply: “I know. I Googled you. You’re one of the good guys.”
Whew!
Fast forward to this summer. My daughter is interning for me: she’s doing a bit of research, grabbing coffee for the team, watching us build product. We’re all in an office the size of a larger-than-average broom closet: one in which I can’t get out of my chair without ramming the back of our lead designer.
At one point, as we were heading home one day, I said to her, “Funny, isn’t it? I used to have an office many times the size of this for just me, I had a driver, I had a jet, I had fresh-baked cookies.”
Her response: “So what? Sure, the money’s not as good, but look at how much happier you are, Mom, than in your last job. You’re creating something and you’re trying to make a difference in the lives of women.”
I promise you, I’m not making this up. Not a word of it. I was floored.
I’ve written about the handful of smart things I did as working mom. One thought to add: Why should we work as though our children are watching?
Because they are.
Even if we don’t think they are, they are.
Sallie Krawcheck is the Chair of Ellevate Network and Ellevate Asset Management. Ellevate Network is a professional woman’s network, operating across industries and around the world. Both businesses are committed to the full economic and financial engagement of women.
Originally published at www.linkedin.com on August 3, 2015.
Ellevate Network, Ellevate Asset Management...past head of Merrill Lynch & Smith Barney ....past research analyst.....mom....crazed UNC basketball fan
Sharing our ideas and experiences
According to the Harvard Business Review, 41% of women working in tech eventually end up leaving the field (compared to just 17% of men), and I can understand why…
I first learned to code at age 16, and am now in my 30s. I have a math PhD from Duke. I still remember my pride in a “knight’s tour” algorithm that I wrote in C++ in high school; the awesome mind warp of an interpreter that can interpret itself (a Scheme course my first semester of college); my fascination with numerous types of matrix factorizations in C in grad school; and my excitement about relational databases and web scrapers in my first real job.
Over a decade after I first learned to program, I still loved algorithms, but felt alienated and depressed by tech culture. While at a company that was a particularly poor culture fit, I was so unhappy that I hired a career counselor to discuss alternative career paths. Leaving tech would have been devastating, but staying was tough.
I’m not the stereotypical male programmer in his early 20s looking to “work hard, play hard”. I do work hard, but I’d rather wake up early than stay up late, and I was already thinking ahead to when my husband and I would need to coordinate our schedules with daycare drop-offs and pick-ups. Kegerators and ping pong tables don’t appeal to me. I’m not aggressive enough to thrive in a combative work environment. Talking to other female friends working in tech, I know that I’m not alone in my frustrations.
When researcher Kieran Snyder interviewed 716 women who left tech after an average tenure of 7 years, almost all of them said they liked the work itself, but cited discriminatory environments as their main reason for leaving. In NSF-funded research, Nadya Fouad surveyed 5,300 women who had earned engineering degrees (of all types) over the last 50 years, and only 38% of them are still working as engineers. Fouad summarized her findings on why they leave with “It’s the climate, stupid!”
This is a huge, unnecessary, and expensive loss of talent in a field facing a supposed talent shortage. Given that tech is currently one of the major drivers of the US economy, this impacts everyone. Any tech company struggling to hire and retain as many employees as they need should particularly care about addressing this problem.

Nobody wants to think of themselves as being sexist. However, a number of studies have shown that identical job applications or resumes are evaluated differently based on whether they are labeled with a male or female name. When men and women read identical scripts containing entrepreneurial pitches or salary negotiations, they are evaluated differently. Both men and women have been shown to have these biases. These biases occur unconsciously and without intention or malice.
Here is a sampling of just a few of the studies on unconscious gender bias:
Most concerningly, a study from Yale researchers shows that perceiving yourself as objective is actually correlated with showing even more bias. The mere desire to not be biased is not enough to overcome decades of cultural conditioning and can even lend more credence to post-hoc justifications. Acknowledging that you have biases that conflict with your values does not make you a bad person. It’s a natural result of our culture. The important thing is to find ways to eliminate them. Blindly believing your company is a meritocracy not only does not make it so, but will actually make it even harder to address implicit bias.
Bias is typically justified post-hoc. Our initial subconscious impression of the female applicant is negative, and then we find logical reasons to justify it. For instance, in the above study by Yale researchers if the male applicant for police chief had more street smarts and the female applicant had more formal education, evaluators decided that street smarts were the most important trait, and if the names were reversed, evaluators decided that formal education was the most important trait.

Because of the high attrition rate for women working in tech, teaching more girls and women to code is not enough to solve this problem. Because of the above well-documented differences in how men and women are perceived, training women to negotiate better and be more assertive is also not enough to solve this problem. Female voices are perceived as less logical and less persuasive than male voices. Women are perceived negatively for being too assertive. If tech culture is going to change, everyone needs to change, especially men and most especially leaders.
The professional and emotional costs to women for speaking out about discrimination can be large (in terms of retaliation, being perceived as less employable or difficult to work with, or companies then seeking to portray them as poor performers). I know a number of female software engineers who will privately share stories of sexism with trusted friends that we are not willing to share publicly because of the risk. This is why it is important to proactively address this issue. There is more than enough published research and personal stories from those who have chosen to publicly share to confirm that this is a widespread issue in the tech industry.
Change is possible. Although these are schools and not tech companies, Harvey Mudd and Harvard Business School provide inspiring case studies. Strong leaders at both schools enacted sweeping changes to address previously male-centric cultures. Harvey Mudd has raised the percentage of computer science majors that are women to 40% (the national average is 18%). The top 5% of Harvard Business School graduates rose from being approximately 20% women to closer to 40% and the GPA gap between men and women closed, all within one year of making a number of comprehensive, structural changes.

These recommendations on what companies could do to improve their cultures are based on a mix of research and personal experience. My goal is to have a positive focus, and I would love it if you walked away with at least one concrete goal for making constructive change at your company.
It is very common at tech start-ups to promote talented engineers to management without providing them with any management training or oversight, particularly at rapidly growing companies where existing leadership is stretched thin. These new managers are often not aware of any of the research on motivation, human psychology, or bias. Untrained, unsupervised managers cause more harm to women than men, although regardless, all employees would benefit from new managers receiving training, mentorship, and supervision.
In the Yale study mentioned above regarding applicants for police chief, getting participants to formalize their hiring criteria before they looked at applications (i.e. deciding if formal education or street smarts was more important) reduced bias. I was once on a team where the hiring criteria were amorphous and where the manager frequently overrode majority votes by the team because of “gut feeling”. It seemed like unconscious bias played a large role in decisions, but because of our haphazard approach to hiring, there was no way of truly knowing.
Leadership sets the values and culture for a company, so the onus is on them to make it clear that they value diversity. Younger engineers and managers will follow their perceptions of what executives value. In the cases of positive change at Harvey Mudd and Harvard Business School, leadership at the top was spearheading these initiatives. Intel is going to begin tying executives’ compensation to whether they achieve diversity goals on their teams. As Kelly Shuster, director for the Denver chapter of Women Who Code has pointed out, leaders have to get rid of employees who engage in sexist or racist behavior. Otherwise, the company is at risk of losing talented employees, and is sending a message to all employees that discrimination is okay.
There is a well-documented confidence gap between men and women. Don’t rely on people nominating themselves for promotions or to get the most interesting projects, since women are less likely to put themselves forward. Google relies on employees nominating themselves for promotions and data revealed that women were much less likely to do so (and thus much less likely to receive promotions). When senior women began hosting workshops encouraging women to nominate themselves, the number of women at Google receiving promotions increased. Groups are more likely to pick male leaders because of their over-confidence, compared to more qualified women who are less confident. Don’t rely heavily on self-evaluations in performance scoring. Women perceive their abilities as being worse than they are, whereas men have an inflated sense of their abilities.
Confirm that men and women with the same qualifications are earning the same amount and that they are receiving promotions and raises at similar rates (and if not, explore why). Make sure that gendered criticism (such as calling a woman strident or abrasive) is not used in performance reviews. The trend of tech companies releasing their diversity statistics is a good one, but given the high industry attrition rate for women, they should also start releasing their retention rates broken down by gender. I would like to see companies release statistics on the rates at which women are given promotions or raises compared to men, and how performance evaluation scores compare between men and women. By publicly sharing data, companies can hold themselves accountable and can track changes over time.
A culture that rewards facetime and encourages people to regularly stay late or eat dinner at the office puts employees with families at a disadvantage (particularly mothers), and research shows that working excess hours does not actually improve productivity in the long-term since workers begin to experience burn out after just a few weeks. Furthermore, when employees burn out and quit, the cost of recruiting and hiring a new employee is typically 20% of the annual salary for that position.
Stanford research studies document that women are more likely to dislike competitive environments compared to men and are more likely to select out of them, regardless of their ability. Given that women are perceived negatively for being too assertive, it is tougher for women to succeed in a highly aggressive environment as well. Men who speak up more than their peers are rewarded with 10% higher ratings, whereas women who speak up more are punished with 14% lower ratings. Creating a competitive culture where people must fight for their ideas makes it much tougher for women to succeed.
Over 10% of the 716 women who left tech in Kieran Snyder’s research left because of inadequate maternity leave. Several were pressured to return from leave early or to be on call while on leave. These women did not want to be stay-at-home-parents, they just wanted to recover after giving birth. Just as you would not pressure someone to return to work without recovery time after a major surgery, women need time to physically heal after delivering a baby. When Google increased paid maternity leave from 12 weeks to 18 weeks, the number of new moms who quit Google dropped by 50%.

There is a huge amount of research on unconscious racial bias, and tech companies need to address this issue. As Nichole Sanchez, VP of Social Impact at GitHub, describes, calls for diversity are often solely about adding more white women, which is deeply problematic. Racial bias adds another intersectional dimension to the discrimination that women of color experience. In interviews with 60 women of color who work in STEM research, 100% of them had experienced discrimination, and the particular negative stereotypes they faced differed depending on their race. A resume with a traditionally African-American sounding name is less likely to be called for an interview than the same resume with a traditionally white sounding name. I do not have the personal experience to speak about this topic and instead encourage you to read these blog posts and articles by and about tech workers of color on the challenges they’ve faced: Erica Baker (Slack engineer, former Google engineer), Justin Edmund (designer, Pinterest’s 7th employee), Aston Motes (Engineer, Dropbox’s 1st employee), and Angelica Coleman (developer advocate at Zendesk, formerly at Dropbox).

I’m currently teaching software development at all-women Hackbright Academy, a job that I love and that suits me perfectly. I want all women to have the opportunity (and I mean truly have the opportunity, without implicit or explicit discrimination) to learn how to program — knowing software development provides so many career and financial possibilities; it’s intellectually rewarding and fun; and being a creator is deeply satisfying. Although I know many women with frustrating experiences of sexism, I also know women who have found companies where they’re happily thriving. I’m glad for the attention tech’s diversity problem has been receiving and I am hopeful about continued change.
Thanks for review, edits, and discussion to: Jeremy Howard and Angie Chang.
hackbright instructor, math phd, software developer, @math_rachel
BY JON WESTENBERG
When you admire someone’s success, and tell them that their work has great meaning for you, the reaction of most people is to downplay your compliment.
There’s the standard response:
There’s the awkward line:
And then, there’s the insincerity of:
The same thing happens when people show their work. It’s always with caveats, with disclaimers and with phrases meant to distract you from the simple fact that they’re proud of themselves.
But we don’t need to play that game. When something we have worked on is good, and we know it’s good, and others say it’s good, there’s no reason to try and look humble, or to attempt to sidestep the praise. Because at the end of the day…
I think there’s two reasons that creatives and entrepreneurs dance the humble shuffle and hide their pride:

The first reason is that we’re conditioned to avoid and reject praise. This happens from a young age. Everyone is told that they shouldn’t seem arrogant or full of themselves. Bringing others down a peg or two is considered to be a good thing. How shitty is that?
We are all like that. Me, you, everybody. If you think you’re not, you need to work on being honest with yourself.
The effect of it is that when we finish work, no matter how good it is, even if it’s the single greatest accomplishment of our lives, we’re scared that others will want to cut us down or criticise us if we seem to happy with ourselves. We want to protect our egos by pre-empting negative reactions and distancing ourselves from what we’ve finished even as we try to entice others to experience what we’ve made.
So we send out our work and we say:
You know what we should be saying?

Here’s the second reason. We just don’t think that we should be the ones talking about what we’ve done. That’s for others to do.
We feel too awkward to talk about how well we think we did.
That’s why we pretend to be no big deal, and when we stand up to accept our Oscar-MTV-Startup awards we claim that we are humbled to be there, and all the credit really goes to our managers or boyfriends or that guy who makes our bagels in the morning.
But do you know what the problem is? In the end, there’s only one person who can really communicate about you and your accomplishments. And that’s you.
If you want to wait for others to talk about your work and sing the praises of what you’ve put out there into the black hole of the internet, you can go right ahead. But you’re missing out on your chance to share your journey.
Oh, and you’ll be waiting a long time.

It really is time we let go of both sincere and insincere modesty. I know that over the last few months I have worked harder than ever before to become a writer and to hone my craft. That hard work hasn’t happened at a desk, 9–5. It’s happened on the train home at the end of the day. I write half of my posts on my phone when I’m heading to the gym at 6 in the morning.
So when I finish a piece, when I finally drag it kicking and screaming over the word count, I don’t distance myself from it. I tell my closest friends, look at this thing that I managed to pull out of myself when it was late at night and I could have been doing a dozen other things.
I’m proud of my writing. I really am. And you should be proud too. Proud of your work, your company, your app, your brand new song, that 5 page film script with the three flashbacks and the dream sequences. You should be proud of the lines of code you slaved over and the UI that nobody is going to notice because it’s so bloody perfect.


Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

“Jack of all trades. Master of none.”
The warning against being a generalist has persisted for hundreds of years in dozens of languages.
“Equipped with knives all over, yet none is sharp,” warned people in China. In Estonia, it went, “Nine trades, the tenth one — hunger.”
Yet, many of the most impactful individuals — both contemporary and historical — have been generalists: Elon Musk, Steve Jobs, Arianna Huffington, Ben Franklin, Leonardo Da Vinci,and Marie Curie.
Are these legends just genius anomalies? Or are they models that we can all learn from?
My research over the past year shows that the latter is true. There is a surprisingly strong link between diversity of relationships / knowledge(being a generalist) and career success.
Many people fail to become successful generalists because schools and society tend to encourage focus on a single expertise. As a result, few ever develop the necessary skillset.
The good news is that with practice and some of the tools in this article, anyone can become a successful generalist.

Meeting new people outside of our current circles and learning outside of our expertise is hard and hard to justify.
For example, if you’re a marketing executive, it’s much easier to justify reading the latest marketing book than it is to read a classic book on evolutionary biology. Yet, reading that biology book might give you a completely novel idea that no one else in your field has.
In confronting this challenge, we must embrace the paradox of the usefulness of useless knowledge as poignantly shared by Nobel Laureate, Richard Feynman:
Here are six concrete strategies from some of the world’s top generalists (who also happen to be millionaire and billionaire entrepreneurs) to help you efficiently and systematically explore new areas…

Ray Dalio is the founder of the largest hedge fund in the world, Bridgewater Associates, which has $169+ billion under management. His approach is based on a set of fundamental principles, which he explains in a 117-page treatise, which I summarized.
Core to Dalio’s philosophy is becoming an independent thinker rather than focusing on what you are taught by others:
In other words, according to Dalio, the key to being a successful investor is finding when the consensus is wrong and having an independent opinion that is right.
The same principle holds true in other fields such as venture capital. Famous technology investor, Peter Thiel, selects the founders he backs in part by asking them what they strongly believe that no one else does.
According to Dalio, the first step to becoming an independent thinker is to understand reality deeply. In order to do this early in his career, he ordered all the annual reports of Fortune 500 companies and worked his way through the most interesting ones and formed opinions.
Warren Buffett took a similar approach. According to the book, Outsiders, he has kept up a habit of reading 3 annual reports a day for his entire career. When asked how to get smarter, Buffett once held up stacks of paper and said, “Read 500 pages like this every day. That’s how knowledge builds up, like compound interest.”
Charlie Munger’s success as one of the world’s top investors and Warren Buffett’s longtime business partner did not come from having a laser-like focus on investment theory. Rather, he studied widely and deeply in many fields, including microeconomics, psychology, law, mathematics, biology, and engineering, and applied insights from these fields to investing.
Munger’s rules and quotes are excerpted from various talks that he’s given, which are featured in his book, Poor Charlie’s Almanack.



Charlie Munger famously stated, “In my whole life, I have known no wise people (over a broad subject matter area) who didn’t read all the time — none.” Emerson Spartz, 28, embodies this ideal.
He dropped out of school at 12, taught himself to speed read, and created his own wide-ranging curriculum. Spartz has now read thousands of books, for awhile even averaging a book per day.
Spartz’s broad reading brought him to the conclusion that, “There are no original ideas. There are just people who aren’t widely read enough to realize their ideas aren’t original.”
Over time, Spartz developed theories on how to make sites go viral. He successfully tested those theories on Facebook Pages; many of which acquired millions of fans. He then progressed to testing his theories with media properties. Today, his company, Spartz Media, is a network of sites (like Dose.com and OMG Facts) with 45+ million visitors per month.
Spartz’s company uses a research and repurpose strategy. A proprietary algorithm finds trending articles with certain qualities and repurposes them for the site’s unique audience.
“In my experience,” Spartz says, “it is much faster and less risky to read more widely and repurpose what is already working, or has worked somewhere else, than to attempt to come up with an idea that you think is original but actually isn’t.”
While most people in our society put their attention into what’s new andpopular, Jason Duff, an Ohio entrepreneur, does the exact opposite. In his real estate endeavors, this means finding historic real estate properties that are undervalued and restoring them, rather than building new properties.
This approach has helped him create hundreds of jobs in his community and build several multimillion dollar businesses.
Duff’s key insight is that wisdom — and value — can be found in the old. The Lindy Effect demonstrates this idea; for every additional day an idea or technology survives, it becomes more likely it will survive longer into the future.
While we tend to assume the newest releases and latest editions will be the most relevant, seeking out classic ideas that have stood the test of time often hold the most unique insights.
Famous science fiction author, William Gibson, once said, “The future is already here — it’s just not very evenly distributed.”
Ryan Simonetti, co-founder of Convene, has built a team of 150+ employees through a unique approach of finding clues of the future in today’s world:
“As an entrepreneur, I’ve found a powerful approach to finding clues is looking for ‘edge cases’ (i.e., extreme users and early adopters of new technology) and then deeply listening to those users in order to understand their unmet needs,” Simonetti says.
“The toughest thing for anybody is to understand what it means to be truly objective and look at the world from someone else’s perspective. In my experience, the best way to do this is the ‘Ask, Observe, Engage’ approach, which is an integral part of design thinking:
Bottom line: look for those edge case users that will define your business and learn deeply from them by asking questions of, observing, and engaging them.
Arianna Huffington started her career as an author, became a journalist, ran for governor, and ultimately founded one of the fastest growing media companies in history, The Huffington Post.
Changing careers and exploring new ideas means letting go of all the time you invested going down one path. It means reinventing your identity, building new relationships, and letting go of limiting beliefs.
When I asked what allowed her to be be so radically open, she related it back to one concept — a “life audit” she did at age 40.
The exercise revealed to Huffington that many of the goals she had committed to in her head (learning German, becoming a good skier, etc.) simply weren’t getting done. Rather than continuing to stress over the goals she wasn’t achieving, she instead chose to consciously remove them from her list and focus on the goals that mattered most to her. This gave her more energy to pursue life-changing business opportunities on the horizon.
Research backs this up. Every day, each of us wastes valuable brainpower holding on to commitments we’ve made that are no longer realistic or important.
If you’ve ever killed yourself trying to meet an unreasonable deadline or shown up ridiculously late to a meeting instead of just rescheduling, you know exactly how much of an energy suck these inessential commitments can be.
“One of the best ways to open up your life to new possibilities is… not by adding new things, but by dropping things that no longer serve you,” Huffington said. “This not only means removing things you’re doing now, but shouldn’t be. It also means removing things from your mind that you think you should be doing, but realistically never will.”

So, expert or generalist?
Perhaps it’s not one or the other.
It’s time for a new model; one that considers the benefits of being a specialist and a generalist.
Perhaps, the winning formula is being what Orit Gadiesh, chairman of Bain (a multi-billion dollar consulting company) calls an ‘expert-generalist’. Gadiesh explains it like this:
“An expert-generalist is someone who has the ability and curiosity to master and collect expertise in many different disciplines, industries, skills, capabilities, countries, and topics and then:
The approach has differentiated Bain from its competitors and has propelled Gadiesh’s career.
Gadiesh goes wide by reading 100+ books a year including novels [in the language of the country she’s visiting] and books on physics, mathematics, history, biographies, and art.
Then, she goes deep by applying “cold, hard intellectual discipline”, and ruthlessly letting go of theories that she has fallen in love with, but that don’t hold up when examined with data.

The traditional narrative is that being a generalist is something you could only do decades or hundreds of years ago when business and science were less developed; when a single scientist could serendipitously discover an amazing medicine like penicillin growing around mold and usher in an era of life-saving antibiotics.
This narrative is misleading to the point of being wrong.
Yes, scientific discoveries require larger teams on average, according to research by Brian Uzzi, a professor at the Northwestern University Kellogg School of Management, who analyzed 26+ million scientific papers going back hundreds of years.
But the reason that teams are successful is not just because of more resources and deeper expertise; it’s also because those team members come from different disciplines and are able to cross-fertilize their insights into atypical, breakthrough combinations.
According to the discipline of scientometrics, the amount of academic research is doubling every 9 years and the number disciplines is growing exponentially. The same is true for the number of business industries.
What does this all mean?
As more business industries and scientific disciplines emerge, there are more opportunities to create breakthrough ideas by combining fields in atypical ways. We literally have the world’s knowledge at our finger tips.
It’s a good time to be an expert-generalist.
* * * * *
As a resource for this article, I put together a 13-page report you can download at no cost. It summarizes Ray Dalio’s very unique approaching to coming up with independent opinions that are true. I put it together because I didn’t see another summary anywhere else that was easy to comprehend or apply.
* * * * *
Other Articles In My Generalist Series
* * * *
Special thanks to Ian Chew and Sheena Lindahl who volunteered their time to edit this article and do research.
* * * *
Disclosure: Some of the contributors featured in this article are members ofSeminal, a selective council that distills research-backed, actionable insights from world-class entrepreneurs and leaders.
* * * * *
Michael Simmons writes at MichaelDSimmons.com and is co-founder of Empact. To receive more articles like this one, visit his blog.
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
O caso é verídico, eu estava presente e posso confirmar. Em uma reunião entre os gestores de uma determinada empresa um dos sócios colocou na mesa uma sugestão:
- Vamos comprar uma enorme piroca de pelúcia.
Os demais não levaram muito a sério, afinal aquele que apresentou a ideia tinha o hábito de fazer sugestões divertidas, geralmente como uma forma bem humorada de crítica.
- Sério, vamos comprar uma pica de pelúcia. Uma enorme, assim, quase do tamanho de uma pessoa.- Sério mesmo?- Sim, e todo funcionário ao chegar vai bater uma foto abraçada com ela.- E pra quê?- Porque essa será nossa política: essa pica também é minha.
E faz sentido.
Um dos grandes problemas de se gerir uma operação é justamente a cultura do "a minha parte eu fiz" ou do "ah, mas isso aí não é comigo". Nada explica melhor essa cultura do que uma historinha que costumam contar no meio empresarial de São Paulo para "ajustar" os mais idealistas.
Tem um quê de sabedoria corporativa, não nego. Eu mesmo lidei com situações assim em São Paulo. Chegando em um novo emprego tive o desprazer de participar de uma reunião com umas 12 pessoas que passaram cerca de 2h discutindo de quem era a culpa por uma falha em uma campanha. Cansado levantei a mão e larguei "opa, a culpa é minha, podemos voltar a trabalhar?". Levei um belo esporro por ter "assumido" uma culpa que não podia ser minha afinal eu havia acabado de chegar. Oras, isso me parecia óbvio, claro que a culpa não era minha, eu queria mesmo era acabar com a discussão e mostrar o quanto aquele bate boca estava sendo improdutivo. E caro. Queria provar um ponto apenas. O interessante é que a maior parte das pessoas na reunião achou minha ação satisfatória, fingindo não ter percebido a alfinetada, ficando feliz por ter se livrado daquela "pica" mesmo.
Essa política precisa mudar. Todos precisam ser responsáveis pelo resultado final, todos precisam se preocupar em resolver, em entregar. Recentemente li Criatividade S/A, livro escrito por Edwin Catmull, um dos fundadores da Pixar. No livro ele fala de como as coisas melhoraram na empresa quando ele conseguiu implantar uma cultura onde todos eram responsáveis pelo controle de qualidade, onde qualquer um, independente da posição hierárquica, poderia apontar falhas ou fazer sugestões. Uma cultura pela qualidade, pela solução, pela responsabilidade com o todo. Detalhe, isso antes da Disney. E, falando em Disney, essa é uma cultura que eles prezam muito lá, vejam esse caso que tive conhecimento nessa semana, narrado por Claudio Nasajon.
E você, "escolhe a menor e senta em cima" ou acredita que "essa pica também é sua"?
Gostou do texto? Se gostou clica aí no "recommend", logo abaixo, e ajude mais pessoas a conhecê-lo.
A primeira publicação brasileira no Medium. Uma produção colaborativa de histórias e tendências para instigar você!


Yes, we get it. Google is not a conventional company. Larry Page said so in the first letter to shareholders when the company went public in 2004. And in case we missed this, Page repeated the quote today when announcing that Google, as it existed before August 10, 2015, would thereafter be known as Alphabet. Most of the stuff we interact with from Google — search, ads, YouTube, Gmail, and Android — will be part of just one of several companies under the Alphabet umbrella. At least that company will retain the familiar name.
The other companies — including Google X, Fiber, Calico, Nest, Sidewalk, and Google Ventures — will be fully owned, but separate, each with its own CEO and finances. In that sense, Google will be like Warren Buffett’s universally admired Berkshire Hathaway, a conglomeration of firms bound only by its ownership.
No one expects Alphabet to operate in the hands-off manner with which Buffett oversees his empire. Page, as CEO of the whole enchilada, will make sure that no executive in his domain will be chief enough to buck his philosophy of thinking big, exploiting technology at scale, and snubbing convention.
The question is, how separate will those companies be? The sense I get at Google is that this new structure is but an evolution of a process begun when Page stepped back from everyday operations last October and turned over much of Google’s product functions to his key lieutenant Sundar Pichai (who now becomes the CEO of Google lite). But Google…er, Alphabet, has seemingly crossed a line by structuring its divisions as separate companies in the Berkshire Hathaway model. At this point, neither Page or anyone else has indicated how thick that line is.
And that’s important. For many years, observers have expressed puzzlement at Google’s adventuresome propensity to generate divisions seemingly built on non sequiturs. What did self-driving cars have to do with search? Can you sell ads with smart thermostats? But when you scratched the surface, you could always figure how such ventures actually did promote Google’s core business. For instance, self-driving cars are huge consumers of Google Maps, and if people are liberated from driving they can do more web searching.
You could regard those crazy moonshots as wild blood injected into the core business, a perpetual antidote to corporate anemia. Because these divisions were part of Google itself, they could easily share their innovations with the part of the company that consumers used daily. When a team inside Google X invented a learning system informally called the Google Brain, it was soon moved to Google’s Knowledge division to enhance the search engine. Will that process be so easily repeated when Google X is run as a separate company? Or will the research division’s CEO be able to decide that his own firm would be better off selling the team to Microsoft or Yahoo? (I put the question to the company formerly known as Google, and didn’t get an answer. I’m not even sure that the answer to that has been determined.)
Or consider the role of Tony Fadell, the once and future CEO of Nest, the company Google bought for $3.2 billion in January 2014. Nest now becomes one of the separate Google companies, which may not make much difference because Google was letting Fadell run it as a quasi-independent duchy. But because Nest was part of the larger enterprise, Fadell had been tapped for broader responsibilities at Google, including the reinvention of Google Glass. Will he now relinquish that role to once again run Nest as a single entity? (Nest told me it wasn’t revealing any details in addition to Page’s statement.)
And what about Fiber, the division of Google devoted to installing and operating high-speed Internet? As I understand it, the mission of Fiber was not necessarily to make money from subscribers but to hasten a higher-speed infrastructure that would make Google’s core products more attractive and profitable. Will its new CEO now have to change direction in order to burnish his own bottom line? (Actually, that could be really interesting — if Fiber bulked up to be a major Internet provider rather than a burgeoning experiment, it might really jolt the incumbents.)
Obviously, Alphabet is not going full Berkshire Hathaway here. In Buffett’s world, an innovation made at Fruit of the Loom does not quickly get shared at Dairy Queen or Geico. But with Alphabet, Page is granting his divisions at least a measure of more autonomy — and an incentive to optimize for the one and not for the all. As Page writes, “Alphabet is about businesses prospering through strong leaders and independence.” It will be fascinating to see how this plays out.
Scrabble, anyone?
Follow Backchannel: Twitter | Facebook
I’m starting a tech hub at Medium.
Mining the tech world for lively and meaningful tales and analysis.

by Jeremy StewartIllustrations by Rob Hudak
If you’re like me at all, you love a good joke that’s related to web development. Here are a few I‘ve thought up over the years. Some are good, some are cheesy, but all are guaranteed to have you laughing at your computer terminal for hours.
Q: Why did the web designer drown?A: She didn’t know if she should float:left or float:right.
Q: Why was the web developer fired from his job?A: He was getting too Sassy.
Alternate version:
Q: Why was the web developer fired from her job?A: She did Less every day.
Q: What did the Southern web developer say when he found out his team stopped using version control?A: Y’all better Git!
Q: Why did the developer stay home from work?A: She had a code!
Q: How did the scrawny web developer put on some muscle?A: He started using flexbox (with float fallbacks for older versions of IE).
Q: Why was the JavaScript reality show cancelled after only one episode?A: People thought it seemed scripted.
Q: How can you tell that a web developer is working?A: You can hear him Grunting!
A junior developer panicked when he realized he didn’t know how to initiate a secure shell session to a remote machine. As he became more upset and his voice grew louder, his boss — the senior developer — took notice and tried to quiet him down. With his finger pressed to the young developers lips, the senior developer calmly whispered, “SSH.”
Q: Why does no one like jokes about descriptions, keywords, or character encodings?A: They’re too ‘meta’.
Q: Why was the iOS developer always so sleepy?A: She wasn’t given any Java.
Update: Four great jokes submitted by Shawn Bailly:
Q: Why did the IP cross the subnet?A: Because the NAT said to!
Q: Why couldn’t the variable enter the JavaScript store?A: It was (Closured())!
Q: Why was the class upset that its parent died?A: Because it wouldn’t be getting the inheritance!
Q: Why did the class attend the gay pride parade?A: It supported polymorphism.
Wonderful joke by @sharonlin:
Q: Why don’t web developers get along with others?A: They’re too MEAN.

Do you have a funny web development joke of your own? Comment it on this article or submit a pull request here!
Developer, dog owner, design lover. Full stack developer, haiku writer. I build responsive, accessible websites.

Few things in life are constant: death, taxes, and strangers asking “So what do you do?” within a minute of a handshake.
As a UX designer, I’ve had a lot of practice over the years trying to nail down my answer.
Here’s what I’ve come up with:
It’s my job to be inside a user’s brain. I need to look at design from the mindspace of a user (actually, lots of users) and squash potential problems or confusion.
This never-ending process requires keeping UX present before, during, and after the build is complete. It’s always a challenge to act with the user in mind — influences like due dates and bottom lines sometimes cloud the way.
To help keep your product on the right path, I’ve assembled a list of 5 UX principles I use to guide my design process. Understanding how and why to make UX decisions goes a long way in explaining things to others on the team, which goes an even longer way in getting said UX decisions into the final product.
Good design is easy to digest — the brain shouldn’t have to expend a ton of energy to figure out what the heck it’s looking at. With any luck, people will just “get it” without needing a 6-section explanation.
This goes beyond clear, easy-to-read copy. People sometimes need guidance to make decisions, so a menu with a list of 12 inline items may seem daunting. Organizing with some hierarchy (size, color, icons) can help highlight the more common choices, which allows someone to find what they’re looking for faster.
Another good example of digestible design is the new user guide, often presented as staggered tips that a person can process one at a time. But imagine the opposite, hitting a brand-new user with a whole stack of instructions, removed from the context of the product. No one likes a confusing surprise.
Consider all the decisions you’re asking someone to make with your product to get to the bottom of the funnel. The brain has a limited amount of cognitive resources during the day — using them up needlessly is rude.
Good design is honest. Aside from understanding the words in your value prop, you need the user to understand the actual value. Being coy or unclear about your product isn’t going to win any fans.
Related to value, pricing is an area where clarity is everything. Users aren’t going to click “Buy now” if they can’t figure out what you’re asking them to pay. While shady “free trials” that switch to auto-billing might be the norm, I doubt they’re winning any popularity contests.
This may sound cheesy, but a good plan is to simply follow the Golden Rule. Explain things like you’d want them explained to you. Make things as clear as you can. You know what you’d expect out of the products you choose to use, so don’t you dare build something less.
Good design is easy to trust. Before asking someone to complete an action, make every effort to help them understand why the task is needed. Being honest and clear in explanations builds trust at each step, leading to increasingly easier conversions down the funnel.
Consider Uber (and Lyft, depending on which way you swing). They’ve made catching a ride so easy that a 100-year-old industry is now in chaos. The app saves your payment info, which you might not feel comfortable exchanging with a stranger, and facilitates a trustworthy, painless transaction.
Removing doubt will create a growingly invisible experience. As decisions require less and less resources, using the product becomes easier and more enjoyable.
Ground-breaking design is awesome, but design that converts is better. New frameworks and flashy plugins might look nice on Dribbble, but if no one is clicking the “buy” buttons, you’ve got a problem.
Platform guidelines exist for a reason. While it might seem that making your product look exactly the same from platform to platform is the main goal, be careful to pay respect to the sticky details of each OS. Using familiar patterns, icons, and presentational styles is a great way to look native, even if you’re not.
Testing your solutions on actual devices goes a long way to ensuring things feel at home in each environment, which is where a tool like InVision shines. Pretending to be a user is easier when you’re not also having to pretend to use a device.
It’s been said that an idea isn’t enough anymore, that execution is what wins the war. Ironically, the more the team executes, the less the user has to. The more simplicity you can bring to a complex problem, the more delighted the user will be with your solution.
The ultimate delight is when someone forgets your product is a “product” — where it’s so useful that it doesn’t even read as a product anymore, just simply as some useful thing in a person’s life.
Building thoughtful products with clear intentions shows that you care, makes choices more comfortable, and leads to a better overall experience. And that’s important, because it’s been found that 68% of users giving up did so because they think you don’t care about them (which we know isn’t true!).
It’s easy to judge the user experience of your own product as long as you’re honest with yourself. Walk a mile in someone’s shoes, considering each action in your product from the brainspace of a tired, weary person. Would you click next?
Originally published at blog.invisionapp.com on July 8, 2015.
Prototyping, Collaboration & Workflow for Designers. Sign up free at http://www.InVisionApp.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

In this day and age, it can be hard to keep your child from being exposed to Elon Musk. Although you may do your best on the home front, they may inevitably stumble across a profile piece or news item on TV at a friend’s house or the computer at the school library. For that reason, it’s better to be prepared for your child’s eventual exposure to Elon Musk and to know how to respond to the questions you may be asked.
If your child asks why you’re not a billionaire like Elon Musk.
Tell your child that Elon Musk is highly unusual, as exemplified by his strange name. Tell your child that if your parents had named you Zambor Dweemoflux you might very well have become a billionaire too, but the fact of the matter is you’re stuck with Jim or Linda or Steve and a normal surname. This is a good opportunity to inform them that life isn’t always “fair” and not everyone gets a circus name like Elon Musk or Sepp Blatter that simply lends itself to being crazy wealthy.
If your child asks why Elon Musk seemingly generates amazing ideas on routine trips to the bathroom.
Tell your child that before he/she was born you too had a groundbreaking idea for a rainbow-powered washing machine. Let them know you were on the verge of getting a patent and becoming fabulously wealthy but then they happened. Tell them you selflessly let your dreams die so that you could focus on being a “hands on” parent because Harry Chapin’s Cat’s In The Cradle really freaked you out.
If your child asks why you’ve still failed to build a toolshed in the backyard while Elon Musk creates multiple corporations with the snap of his fingers.
Make sure your child understands that Elon Musk is an abomination created in human form — the love child of two ender-demons, Gorshak and Melkanor from the seventh circle of Hell. Tell him/her that he was born specifically to make everyone else in the world look like serial underachievers and feel bad about themselves. Tell your child that you are “The Chosen One” and that in order to prevent Elon Musk from his nefarious goal of spreading global unhappiness and dissatisfaction with everyone else’s relatively pathetic accomplishments they must never again acknowledge the demon-spawn’s profane victories.
If that doesn’t work, take away your child’s iPad until they stop bringing his name up.
This originally appeared on banterist.com
I self-identify as Brian Sack • www.briansack.com
I think when people are ultra-positive and have this incomparably sunny disposition toward the world, I get turned off. There’s a lot of stuff out there which attempts to make you feel inspired, but ends up leaving you feeling ashamed for being human. It would be easy for me to say:
“Everything happens for a reason!”
“Life is an adventure!”
“Love solves everything!”
“Happiness is a choice!”
These are easy words to say. Easy things to think. Easy, easy, easy. But, their meanings dry up the moment life happens.
I have spent far too many nights feeling ashamed that I couldn’t be more positive, happier, better, stronger. I’d look at these shiny people plastered with positivity and I’d wonder where I went wrong. Why was I so affected by the world? Why didn’t every day feel like an adventure? Don’t these people have to pay bills and have uncomfortable conversations and wake up sometimes with a headache and an axe to grind? Why was I seemingly the only one so deeply affected by the human experience?
I don’t want to be inspired anymore. Inspiration is cheap. It’s easy. It’s flowery. It’s drenched in promises no one can fulfill.
I want to feel understood. I want to feel heard. I want to feel like my weird and twisty and dark thoughts and fears and feelings are not unique to me. I don’t need someone negating my experience in order to provide me with sweet words fluffy as clouds — and just as transparent. I want gritty and real and raw and I’d rather see people fucking up than trying to act as if they never do.
I’m tired of people trying to inspire me to have a better, bigger, happier life. Let me exist. Let me fumble. Let me find the patch of light in the long tunnel of darkness. Let me figure out some shit on my own. I say we need less fake inspiration in this world and more realness. Less doomsday. Less fake happiness. More real shit. Less preaching. More storytelling. Less advice. More community.
I wish people would stop trying to perfect my life. Everybody is selling the magic pill to happiness. Why do I have to be so happy all the time? CAN I LIVE?
I want you to know that you don’t need to fix yourself if you’re not smiling every moment of the day. Sometimes you have very little to be grateful for and that’s okay. Sometimes it’s hard to muster up the energy to be happy with what you have when you want so much more from the world and yourself. That’s okay. It’s okay to be angry and to be kind of dark and weird and not a ball of positivity every moment. Sometimes it’s okay to be bored and to think that happiness is a bit boring because it kind of is. Sometimes it’s fine to be moody and sad and contemplative and to solve problems with a glass of wine or a pizza or some good sex I don’t even know but it’s okay to just not have it all figured out, to have no answers, to just be like, what is the point of anything.
It’s okay to feel like the ground is shaking beneath your feet. It’s okay because everything is temporary. You can lose your footing one day and be on top of the world the next. Things can change in a blink. Happiness is as fleeting as anything else. These fake salespeople who act like they have the cure to being human really grind me up. All they serve to do is make you feel ashamed for not having it all figured out. They sell your aspirational experience and bake shame into it.
Just promise me that the last thing you’ll do is be ashamed of where you’re at in your experience of being a human. Nothing good comes from shame. It’s about the lowest vibrational place you could be operating from. Avoid shame and anything or anyone that causes you shame. Get it all the hell out of your energy field. Shame is not going to motivate you. It’s going to drain you.
If there’s one promise you can make for yourself, let it be this: I will not let myself be ashamed of my unique experience of being human. Forget the positive bullshit: that promise, that mantra, that state of mind is what can really change lives. A person incapable of cowering to shame is a hero — considering all the many reasons our world gives us reasons to be ashamed. To forgo the feeling of shame is an act of radical resistance. Let yourself be. To truly be. What freedom.
If you enjoyed this post, feel free to Recommend it. You can also like my Facebook page or follow me on Twitter.
writer // jamievaron.com
This post was originally published on Rype.
“If only I could have learned Spanish a few years ago…”“If only I learned about investing when I was still in my early twenties…”
If only.
For many of us, there are more things we want to learn than we have time.
As information becomes more readily accesible online, the number of things we want to learn is only continuing to increase. And the only variable we can control is the amount of time we spend learning them.
Shortening the learning curve is a topic that’s been studied for many years, and this guide will cover the fundamental core principles of learning faster. You’d be able to leverage these principles to push yourself to learn faster in any topics including languages, business, musical instruments, and more.
Why reinvent a wheel that’s already been created?
The common tendency we all have when learning something new is trying to master it alone, underestimating the amount of time and effort that can be saved by getting help from someone who’s learnt it.
Think back to a time when you first learned how to speak a new language or a new skill.
You probably had a steep learning curve initially, but after a few years or even months of experimenting and making mistakes, you could design a shortcut to help a friend avoid those same mistakes you made early on.
In order to achieve mastery faster, our first step should be to consult the top players in the field, and model the path they have already carved out for us.
As Tony Robbins puts it:
In this day and age, it’s possible to retrieve almost any solution that’s out there in the form of books, blogs, training videos, consultants, someone in our network — the list goes on.
The next step to hacking the learning curve is to deconstruct the skill into its basic, fundamental components. Break down the parts and find the most important things to practice first.
This is in reference to the popularized Pareto’s Principle, where the goal is to generate 80% of results putting in 20% of the effort.

It turns out that this concept can apply to almost anything in life, including:
Here’s the Pareto graph in a different visual format.

Embracing this way of thinking only goes to show that very few things actually make a difference in any aspect of our lives, including learning.
Our goal then, should be to separate the 20% of our learning materials that will give us 80% of the result.
As it turns out, fast-learning experts have already embraced this ideology, and have provided some concrete examples on how to do this effectively.
In his Ted Talk, Josh Kaufman believes that you don’t need 10,000 hours in order to master a skill. As Kaufman elaborates, the key is to embrace the first 20 hours, and learn the most important subset skills within that time frame to get the maximum amount of impact.
Related topic to learn: Parkinson’s Law
For example:
Multi-tasking is a guilty pleasure we’ve all developed in the age of constant notifications and mobile applications. From checking our emails every ten minutes, to scrolling through our instagram feed, to co-workers coming by our desk for a “five-minute break.”
However, multi-tasking can be one of the biggest hurdles preventing us from learning faster.
Think about your own computer.
When you have 20+ different tabs open on your browser, your computer begins to slow down and it takes longer to process every action afterwards.
Studies have shown that when an individual gets distracted, it takes an average of 25 minutes to return to the task at hand.
What’s more important to note, is that a study done by the University of California, Irvine, found that a co-worker gets only 11 minutes before they’re distracted.
The same thing applies to our long-term focus. Many of us aren’t able to dedicate the 6–12+ months it takes to learn a skill because of the countless new projects, ideas, or hobbies that come our way.
And when we decide to shift our focus towards a new distraction, it’s much more difficult to find the same passion and drive to focus on the previous skill.
Once you have deconstructed the subset skills that will give you the maximum amount of results, focus solely on improving those skills and avoid learning anything else until you’ve mastered them.
This is the part where most of us struggle, and what many of us don’t want to hear.
YES! The key to mastering anything faster requires practice.
It requires frequency and persistence of performing the same skill over and over again, until you can do it subconsciously, without having to think about it.
The best performers in the world understand this “secret” to learn faster and become the best, yet rarely talk about its importance because of how unsexy it sounds.
Expert-level performance is primarily the result of expert-level practice, not due to innate talent.
As K. Anders. Ericsson, a scientific researcher from Florida State University, elaborates in his paper:
Recommended further reading:5 Research-Backed Methods to Master Any Skill Faster
In 1960, while they were still an unknown high school rock band, the Beatles went to Hamburg, Germany to play in the local clubs.
The group was underpaid. The acoustics were terrible. The audiences were unappreciative. So what did the Beatles get out of the Hamburg experience?
Non-stop hours of playing time, practice, and immediate feedback that forced them to get better.
That’s the key difference that rose The Beatles to the top, according to Macolm Gladwell in his book Outliers.
The band brothers didn’t just practice in their garage for the sake of practicing; they strived to get in front of a live audience that will provide them immediate criticism and constructive feedback.

As the Beatles grew in skill, audiences demanded more performances — more playing time. By 1962 they were playing eight hours per night, seven nights per week. By 1964, the year they burst on the international scene, the Beatles had played over 1,200 concerts together.
By way of comparison, most bands today don’t play 1,200 times in their entire career.
This is why at Rype, we’re solely focused on connecting you with native speaking tutors, who can give you immediate feedback during your lessons.
Unfortunately, many of us give up before or during what Seth Godin calls “The Dip.”

Godin describes that although it’s important to know when to quit, many potential winners don’t reach success because they quit before the dip.
According to Godin:
Psychologists have also studied what’s known as the transition cycle.
It’s the cycle of progress we go through whenever we’re experiencing change or a novel event, such as a tragic event or even learning something new.

As you can see, there’s a sense of euphoria we all experience when we begin something new. It’s why we’re so addicted to seeing notifications on social media, because dopamine gets released each time.
Once the Honeymoon phase fades away, we experience the “dip” and our progress begins to plateau or diminish. This is when most of us quit.
The reason why this is important to visualize is because if you can predict that a dip is coming whenever you’re learning anything new, it’s easier to fight through it.
More importantly, the dip is there because those persistent enough to stick it through can ride the upward wave that is at the end of the tunnel.
We made it! Here’s the summary of main points discussed in the ultimate guide to hacking the learning curve:
Thanks for reading until the end! I’d greatly appreciate it if you could share this with one person that will find this valuable, and feel free to hit the big fat recommend button in the bottom! ☺
If you enjoyed this article, you’ll also like reading:-5 Research-Backed Methods to Master Any Skill Faster-How to Double Your Reading Speed (Without Losing Comprehension)-How to Learn Any Language in Less Than 90 Days
Adventurer, Entrepreneur, Lifehacker. Follow me @heyseankim http://thegrowthlist.com
Thoughts on language hacking, learning faster, and traveling the globe. https://rypeapp.com

It’s a good time to be a software engineer. The industry is booming, demand for coders continues to grow, and salaries are at an all time high.
But how long will the party last?
Telegraph Operators of the 21st century
There are striking parallels between software engineers today and telegraph operators of the 19th century. By today’s standard, telegraph operators were technical lightweights: the bulk of the job consisted of receiving and transmitting messages sent over telegraph wires in Morse code, a monotonous albeit attention-heavy task. In contrast, contemporary software engineering generally involves a broad skill set that requires a deep understanding of complex systems and the ability to quickly master and re-master an accelerating parade of new software development frameworks.
However, during the mid 19th century, telegraph operators were well paid, well regarded, and considered quite technical relative to other mainstream professions. They had freedom to travel, and highly skilled operators flocked to large cities for the best jobs. As telegraphy took off and more and more cables were laid, the demand for telegraph operators skyrocketed. Standards for faster communication were developed, and operators had to keep up, memorizing increasingly efficient and complex systems of shorthand and communication protocols. Thomas Edison was a telegraph operator early in his career before settling into his true calling of stealing ideas from Nikola Tesla and empire-building. And unsurprisingly, as with contemporary software engineering, there were huge pay discrepancies between men and women.
Yet by the 20th century, the telephone had been invented, a technology that had the distinct advantage of not requiring an operator tasked with translation from code to natural language. By the 1920s, there were only a small fraction of the telegraph operators left compared to the 1890s.
The Downfall of Software Engineering
Fast forward a hundred years, and we seem to be in a similar situation with software engineers. While this profession is undeniably one of broader skill and intellectual ability than operating a telegraph, software engineers of today occupy a similar functional role to the telegraph operators of Edison’s era. The contemporary explosion of software parallels the 19th century rise of early networked communications. And just as the demand for telegraph operators scaled more or less linearly with the rise of the telegram, the demand for software engineers is currently scaling roughly linearly with the rise of software. Back then, every telegram had to be translated from Morse code to natural language by a human being. Today, every line of source code (sort of) has to be written by a human being.
To be sure, software is becoming more efficient, in that sophisticated frameworks have been developed so that fewer lines of source code have to be written, and advanced programming languages, compilers and interpreters have made the life of the programmer much easier than it had been in the 1980s or 1990s. But fundamentally, the process of writing software is still largely a human activity today.
That will change.
The current version of the profession is under pressure along two fronts. First, there are website-building tools like Weebly that allow anyone to build a website without writing software. Moreover, basic high level software engineering is getting more and more accessible, so that the delta between expressing clear ideas and being able to program is vanishing.
Second, on another front, software is getting better at facilitating the creation of software. While we are still a ways away from a fully automated piece of software that can write other pieces of software given some minimal, half-baked specification (i.e. do the job of a human software engineer), it is part way there. And more importantly, we do not need full artificial intelligence capabilities in order for role of the software engineer to shrink; instead, our software itself will just play a bigger and bigger role relative to humans in the creation of software. As an analogy, imagine semi-automated computer-assisted driving as a first step before fully self-driving cars.
While there will still be specialized software engineers and plenty of computer science-minded humans in the future, it seems inevitable given both of the above pressures that Software Engineering as a category will fade into historical obscurity as we approach the 22nd century.
But if you’re a software engineer (as I am), don’t despair — the critical thinking and technical skills will surely come in useful for future needs that arise. And if they don’t, well, keep some of that money saved up.
Interested in fairness, transparency, security, large data sets, social interactions.


*Note: this is my first piece of writing on Medium. I’m really happy to be here, I think this platform and community of writers/thinkers is fantastic. Hi everyone here.*
A few months ago I joined Patreon, a crowdfunding website sort of like a hardcore, ongoing-style Kickstarter that allows fans to support artists on a regular basis by pledging to pay a certain amount of money — a dollar, three dollars — every time content is put out: a piece of music, an article, a video, a page of comic book art. It’s basically a trusting subscription to my general art-channel, true new-school patronage.
Since March I’ve gathered about 5,500 patrons, and whenever I release something, the community pays me about $35,000, which I then use to pay for my office, my small staff, my rent, my life, and the technicians and collaborators who help me make the art. Earlier this summer I worked with a great artist, Avi Ofer, to create a short animation using a found iPhone voice memo recording of weird shit my writer husband says in his sleep. Three weeks ago I went into the recording studio to make a record of cover songs with my dad. The other day I did a piece of bizzaro living-statue performance art + book-drive at the New York Public Library, filmed it, and will put that film out as a piece of patreon content. Nobody’s complaining yet.
All this is honestly a huge relief after wondering if I was going to have to mount a kickstarter campaign every year to release music, cover the bills and support my generally spontaneous art-making addiction.
As many artists are finding out, Kickstarter campaigns are thrilling, but a lot of work. It’s a lot of concrete stuff to put in the mail; it’s a lot of admin energy spent NOT making art. With patreon, I think shit up, I do my work, I put the content/music/video up for free for everyone to enjoy, and I still get paid. It’s great. In a TED talk I gave called “The Art of Asking” a few years ago (and again in the book with the same title) I argued for a possible future where we don’t punish people for sharing content.
Taylor Swift may disagree, but I’m still committed to the fact that neither Spotify nor iTunes is going to be the salvation of the modern musician. There’s just no proof that those giants are committed to the survival of the smaller artists. The way I see it, we’re better off using the new tools of the internet to exchange with each other, rather than rely on a different set of middlemen who are possibly even less committed to the true sustainability of artists’ careers than the major labels were.
Anyway.

With my first child, at 39 years old.
Then I got this email through the “Ask Amanda” portal on my website.
Dearest Amanda,
I love you. I’ve been a faithful fan of yours for nearly a decade. We’ve met face to face a couple times. I gushed about how it was you who inspired me to take up song-writing and composing. I gave you a bracelet. It was all sincere and heartfelt.
Lately though, you’ve had me concerned.
The steady stream of new music we used to hear from you seems to be dwindling. And most of the new songs you’ve released lately are the simplistic, feel good, ukulele tunes. Which are fine. But I know that those songs take less time and effort to write, and they offer much less brain-heart stimulation than your older work. Frankly, they’re a little disappointing.
You have a reasonably sized, and growing fanbase. There will always be people to buy your merch, your albums, tickets to your shows. You didn’t NEED to join Patreon, but you did anyway. Then you announced your pregnancy, after years of saying you didn’t want to be a mom. It makes me worry about what’s going to happen next.
Child care is my day job. I babysit my two nephews. I know that young children need LOTS of attention. Especially if they are hyper-sensitive like you or me. Chances are you’ll pass that trait on to your kid. When you have this baby, either him/her/it will suffer, or your career will suffer. Your career will suffer a lot sooner if your pregnancy is as physically and emotionally draining as some of my friends’ pregnancies.
So, my question is, did you do this on purpose?
Are your patrons paying for new music, or are they paying for a new baby?
Is what you’re doing really fair to your fans? When will the music happen? The really gritty, complex, emotional good stuff? Am I missing something important? Some behind-the-scenes stuff? Is my perception of time skewed?
Bottom line is, I need answers before I can feel comfortable giving you more of the money that I earned with my own sweat and tears.
Love always,
Worried-but-Still-Devoted
(The subject of the email, btw, was: “Baby announcement right after joining Patreon?…Scam much?”)
Dear Worried,
First off, thank you for taking the time to even write this letter, and thank you for being a fan of my music all these years. I really do love and cherish every person who cares enough to communicate with me.
Secondly, thanks for confirming my deepest, most insecure, harrowing fears about motherhood and about how people will perceive me now that I have decided to breed!
Sarcasm aside, it really is a pregnant artist’s worst nightmare….well… at least it is THIS pregnant artist’s worst nightmare to get a letter like this.

I had my first abortion at 17, senior year of high school, and I’ve had two more in the 22 years since, for varying complicated reasons. Though I don’t regret them, those were some of the hardest, darkest decisions and days of my life.
I agree with you that, yes, some artists, male and female, do get kinda boring after they have babies. I won’t name names, but we’ve seen it happen, dude. A passionate, angst-filled songwriter who speaks to the very core of your black, black, suffering soul all of a sudden mellows into parenthood and domesticity and starts writing sappy songs about how everything is just about….y’know….acceptance, balance, meadows of wheat, and going with the flow man.
I would never begrudge these artists their magical balance. It’s hard enough, right?
Here’s the thing: I have come to believe we don’t have to suffer to make great art. But — still, to this day — I’ve had a hard time shaking the belief that suffering and isolation are critically important ingredients of art-making. And I’ve spent years weighing the pros and cons of having a child:
Backstory.
Where I grew up, there weren’t really any Mom Artists in my field of vision.There were nice housewives and welfare moms and bad-ass career women who worked in tall buildings in the city, but no artists in sight with babies. I simply did not equate “mother” with “artist”. Artists were another breed of being entirely, encountered almost exclusively through MTV and magazines. Usually wearing leather and tutus. Smoking.
Female musicians I encountered at an early age were never shown in videos or pictures with children in tow.

So no small wonder that as I approached my mid-thirties I entered a conflicted baby conundrum. If I had kids, would I turn into a boring, irrelevant, ignorable artist? Would I suddenly start writing songs about balance and shit? Would I have a sudden, terrifying, interest in the LUTE?
Would I become that annoying person who is so enthralled with their child that it’s impossible to have an intelligent conversation with them about art because they’d rather show you iPhone photos of their kid drooling out a spoonful of mashed carrots? This all made me really afraid.

It didn’t help matters that I’d built a traveling artist’s life that I loved, a well-oiled bohemian existence of couchsurfing and wonder and friends and improv in which I ran my own business and nobody could boss me around. Not to mention finding a supportive husband, Neil, who came equipped with three older children from another marriage, and who was just as happy to have more children as not.
It also didn’t help that some my own elders had begun saying irritating things like:

Which is, simply put, total bullshit. I’d learned, through my honest, intimate friendships with older people, that that simply was not true. Some of my mentors, artistic or not, were and are childless and the happiest, most fulfilled and enlightened people I know. I’ve learned from them that children do not innately make you happy and fulfilled: only you can do that, and to shuffle the responsibility onto a kid is actually a pretty cruel thing to do.
I watched my biological window start closing with a kind of paralytic dread, knowing that my womb and my soul were going to get crushed if I didn’t make a wholehearted decision one way or the other.
So, as you know, I went for it.
I wasn’t sure I was doing the right thing, or even that there was a right thing to do. I just did it, really hoping that the ol’ “jump and the net shall appear” cliché would manifest into a net and not a black hole.
And right now, at 36 weeks pregnant, all I can do is look at the female heroes who’ve preceded me and NOT descended into crappy boringness and pray to the holy trinity: Patti…Ani...Björki…hear my prayer. May I not get fucking boring.



So, dear Worried, you can see why your email stirred my darkest fears. I’m worried too. Probably more worried than you, because, I have to live with me all the time. And soon, I’ll have to live with this baby all the time. All while trying to not lose my art-self.
And, honestly, if this baby really winds up acting as a crippling, muse-killing, inspiration-sucker who saps the life out of my music rendering it totally bland…well…just tiptoe away, and leave me in my balanced, bland and happy misery.
As to your worry about whether or not this is a scam to crowdfund an infant: it can be confusing about where the lines of asking and taking should be drawn.
Let me tell you a story, one that I was going to include in “The Art of Asking” book (it wound up on the cutting room floor with 100,000 other words.)
Last year I stumbled across an open letter from Eisley, a female-fronted indie band from Texas, who’d tried to raise $100k on kickstarter so they could afford to accept a slot to support a far bigger band on tour.
Some people were confused, but I understood those logistics: when my band, The Dresden Dolls, were offered the opening slot for Nine Inch Nails in the summer of 2005, we chose to go into a financial hole in order to say yes. Our nightly paycheck covered about a third of what it cost to hire a crew and keep up with their tour buses, and we lost thousands of dollars. It’s a financial decision I’ve never regretted; I still meet fans, years later, who found me on that tour and have stuck with me ever since. Those things pay off.
Unfortunately Eisley didn’t reach their Kickstarter goal (so it went completely unfunded, as per the all-or-nothing Kickstarter model); but they went on the tour anyway and there was an angry backlash from their fans, who accused them of acting dishonestly. The fans asked: “if you didn’t need the money to begin with…why did you crowdfund??” Two of the members of the group were planning to bring their babies on tour, a fact that got dragged into the whole kerfuffle. Eisley defended themselves in an open letter, pointing out they’d managed to borrow the money from their families and their label, and they defended themselves specifically against people accusing them of tastelessly begging for money for baby formula, with the rebuttal that all their babies were breastfeeding…and thus weren’t planning to spend a dime of that crowdfunding money on baby formula.
But honestly? Why shouldn’t they buy baby formula with that money? It’s just there on the list of stuff they need to survive on tour, up there with everything else like gas, food, and capital to print t-shirts. It would be a like a diabetic singer promising her fans that she wasn’t going to spend her Kickstarter tour money on insulin.

When you’re a crowdfunding artist, it shouldn’t matter what your choices are as long as you’re delivering your side of the bargain — the art, the music. It shouldn’t matter whether you’re spending money on guitar picks, rent, printer paper, diapers, college loans, or the special brand of organic absinthe you use to find your late-night muse…. as long as art is making it out the other side and making your patrons happy.

The money we need to live is often indistinguishable from the money we need to make art. We need all sorts of stuff to make art with. MAYBE I EVEN NEED THIS BABY TO MAKE ART. Who knows?
As to your question about the timing of all this…no, it wasn’t schemed. I’ve been intending to use patreon since it was founded two years ago, because I love the idea of giving my fans a way to just pay me whenever I actually release content, instead of relying on a tired, outdated system of making one big-old fashioned record every couple of years. It feels way more sane, actually, as the impending unpredictability of parenthood approaches, to be able to work whenever I’m inspired and can make the time, instead of working on the forced, binge-and-purge, feast-or-famine cycle that I was stuck on when I was on a major label who didn’t care much about my quality of life.
I love the idea of getting paid for my work, when I work, by the people who want me to work. (Like you. Unless you stop wanting it. Which is fine. We’re in an open relationship. You can leave anytime. You can even come back. I’m fine with that.)
And if you already think that my output is getting too weird, or too dull: at least you don’t have to worry that the baby will turn me into one of those obnoxious songwriters who picks up a ukulele and…let’s just admit that I clearly jumped the ukulele shark years ago, and it was REALLY liberating. Though, honestly, if what you’re waiting around for is “the really gritty, complex, emotional good stuff…”…I’ll be really surprised if pushing a SMALL HUMAN OUT OF MY VAGINA doesn’t also rip my heart open and provide some really, profound new artistic perspectives. It might take me a second to recover from you know, childbirth, before I start writing again, but just give me a second. Don’t strangle me if I decide to go into labor without a notebook in my hand, jotting down inspirational lyrics.
In closing, dear Worried, if you really are worried about me, and you are with me in sensitive camaraderie, I humbly ask one thing:
please don’t terrify and jinx me right now.
Not when I’m just about to jump into this net that I’m praying will appear to catch me, my art, and this baby…all at the same time.
I love you,
Amanda
This piece was initially drafted for BBC’s “Fourthought”….you can hear me reading the first draft of it at the Hay Literary festival, live for a radio-studio audience in the BBC tent, here.
For the curious and/or supportive, here’s the link to my patreon: https://www.patreon.com/amandapalmer…if you’d like to join, friday will hopefully bring to your inbox the full backstory, gallery and time-lapse documentary of the library-statue project made by my longtime friend and collaborator, filmmaker Michael Pope. The Dad Record will be coming sometime this winter or spring. The patrons are going to help me determine how to release it.
And you’ve never heard my music, here’s a primer: http://amandalanda.amandapalmer.net/
Thank you for reading, I hope the discussion continues. And thanks, Medium.

*photo care of http://www.elegantlypregnantafrica.co.za/wp-content/uploads/2012/08/Ways-to-Help-Get-Pregnant.jpg?e96983
performer, writer, giver, taker, yeller, listener, love-lover, rule-hater…my book “THE ART OF ASKING” is out now: http://bit.ly/AFPweb.
I’m going to tell you a secret. There is a skill you can master which will guarantee everything you do will improve by at least 50%, but probably more like 100%, and more over time.
The best part about this skill is that it’s easy. Anyone can obtain it. You don’t need to have any particular natural talent. You don’t need any resources or teachers to master it. Once you have it and it becomes a part of your every operation you will begin to achieve at an accelerating rate. Your success will compound and your reputation will bring you more opportunities.
In the words of Morpheus, “Do you want to know what it is?”
That’s it. Read it again. Let it sink in.
What does it look like in practice? Responding to emails immediately, and never taking longer than 24 hours to do so. Showing up for everything you’ve said you’d show up for. Finishing everything you’ve said you’d finish and on time. When you say “I’ll read that book,” or “I’ll check out that website,” or “I’ll send my resume,” doing it. Immediately. If you can’t or won’t, don’t say those things. Every time you say you’ll do something and don’t, you’ve missed an opportunity to be better than the majority of your peers and build social capital.
In 90% of situations I’d take someone with coherent same-day responses to all communications who always delivers as promised and when promised over someone with mastery over just about any skill I can think of. I’m not alone in this. The desperate need for hard working, reliable people who communicate immediately all the time is off the charts.
If you make people wait for responses or wonder if you’ll ever follow through, you’ve cost them, even if only psychologically. People don’t tend to want to work with people who cost them — they want to work with people who they never have to expend any mental energy worrying about. They want to work with people who pleasantly surprise them by over-delivering.
Anyone can be the person who always follows through, always communicates, always delivers, and never leaves anyone hanging or in the dark. It’s only a matter of will and discipline.
Just get stuff done.
Isaac Morehouse is an entrepreneur, thinker, and communicator dedicated to the relentless pursuit of freedom. He is the founder and CEO of Praxis, an intensive one-year program combining real-world business experience with personal coaching, professional development projects, and interdisciplinary education for those who want more than college.
Originally published as “The Secret Skill That Beats All the Rest” at www.discoverpraxis.com on May 22, 2015.
Founder & CEO of Praxis
Where unconventional paths in entrepreneurship, personal development, and education meet.
At Appbot we get to see a lot of app icons while providing insights into app reviews.
In the past I have studied everything from app descriptions, to screenshots, to names, to countries. The one that has always really interested me most was app icons, but I never came up with an idea on how to really study what is effective.
Recently I stumbled across a cool Ruby library called Miro that extracts the dominant colors from an image.
Finding the dominant colors of apps shows some really interesting results.

Next I took the standard Web Colors (plus added yellow) and matched each web color to the closest. This grouped them into approximate names.
#02601e -> Green#a8120c -> Maroon#0c44de -> Blue#bdbfc0 -> Silver#f4b510 -> Yellow#717973 -> Gray#24721b -> Green#2d0d0e -> Black

Ignoring black, white & grey and taking the four most common colors I plotted them on the a ‘Color Wheel’.
The large size of the icon represents a larger percentage of the icon containing that color.


Plotting the top 200 free apps on the Color Wheel gives us:
We find large clusters of blue and red app icons, with a scattering of green. Pink and purple is under represented, with Snapchat owning yellow.

The top 200 paid iOS apps differ slightly from free.
Although there are similar groupings of blue, red and green to that of free, paid apps generally appear to use more colors with less having one color on the majority of the icon. This results on more of a spread and smaller icons on our Color Wheel.

Next I plotted the newest 100 iOS apps released to the App Store at the time of writing. The assumption was that this would give a more general representation of the overall store than the top charts.
This gave very similar results to that of the top paid charts.

All social networking apps are blue aren’t they? Twitter, Facebook etc.
Turns out the clusters are similar to all categories, if anything green is more represented.

Many games tend to have more complex icons than applications. This sees more of a spread in colors used.

It’s always felt that 90% of the apps in my OS X dock are blue, but is that the way it turns out in the top charts for Mac?
Turns out blue is similarly represented as it is on iOS, with also a lot of icon using red and green.

Graham from MacStories had a great suggestion on plotting the major color of an app against it’s chart position. I tried it for the top 100 free apps.
The larger the icon the higher up the charts the app was.

After posting the original copy of this article I had a bunch of requests for Google Play comparisons. My results are from the Australian store.
Looks pretty similar to me :)

For comparison to iOS.

This should really come down to your app, what it does and your target audience. However, maybe you fit into one of these three categories.
You like to follow the crowd, so go for blue or red.
Maybe you can go green, not the most popular, but you still aren’t being too risqué.
You laugh at the conformists, scoff at those who think they are different. Go for pink or purple and wear it like you own it.
I’m writing an eBook called “Secrets of the App Store”. Join my mailing list to download it first or follow me on Twitter @stuartkhall.
If you enjoyed this please help me out and recommend it. Why not check out Appbot while you are at it :)
Thanks for reading!
Stuart
Founder & Chief Bot @AppbotX
All about Growth Hacking, Mobile Marketing & Data Analytics

Tudo que eu queria era chegar logo em casa. A chuva fina que caia fez com acontecesse o de sempre: os taxis de São Paulo foram teleportados pro mesmo lugar pra onde vão os isqueiros e tampas de bic. Easy taxi! Nada. Nenhum taxista aceitou. 99. Nada. Merda. Impressionante, choveu os taxis daqui somem. Tenho certeza de que eles se reúnem todos em um barzinho pra esperar a chuva passar e rirem de nossas caras durante o processo.
Hum… tem o tal do Uber, né? Acho que tenho um voucher que recebi e… isso, R$ 20,00 de desconto. Aqui em São Paulo dá pra rodar umas duas quadras a 5km por hora. Vamos tentar. Instalando, cadastro e… é isso!
10 minutos e um carrão preto para na minha frente. Opa, que beleza, hein? Deve custar alguns anos de meu salário. Cheirinho de novo. Achei que só iria entrar em um carro desse em feirão de automóvel. Andar então…
- Boa tarde, senhor, muito bom poder atendê-lo. Pra onde vamos?- Boa tarde, amigo — educado o sujeito! — Pode seguir pela JK, vamos pegar a marginal.- Claro, senhor. A temperatura do carro está a seu agrado?- Sim, sim, obrigado.- A música lhe agrada? Tem alguma preferência?- Não, está ótima, pode deixar.
O sujeito está me tratando tão bem que estou achando que ele quer me comer. Porra, sabia que usar essas roupas de publicitário era roubada. Melhor eu dar bandeira de que não curto. E deixar claro que não tenho nada contra quem curte também.
- O senhor aceita um chocolate?- Quanto é?- É de graça, por favor, pode se servir.- De graça? — Opa, vou encher a mão aqui!
Rapaz… estranho isso. Sei lá, não estou acostumado com prestação de serviço assim não. Aqui em São Paulo quando um prestador de serviço lhe dá um sorriso pode conferir a conta novamente.
- Se quiser uma água tenho aqui e se precisar acessar a internet o veículo tem wi-fi.
Olha, que coisa… eu estava me sentindo um barão. É assim que um rico deve se sentir curtindo seu carrão com motorista. E tudo isso com R$ 20,00 de descon… CARALHO!!!! Que freiada foi essa? Puta merda! E que cace… ei!!!
- Desculpa, senhor, eles se jogaram na frente do carro!- Eles? Mas…
O que é isso?! Dezenas de sujeitos batendo no carro. Pancadas em todo canto. Ovos. Farinha. Que porra é essa!?!?! Os caras são… são… são taxistas!
- TAXISTAS, UNIDOS, JAMAIS SERÃO VENCIDOS! EI, UBER, VAI TOMAR NO RABO! O POVO NÃO É BOBO, QUER O TAXI NO COMANDO DE NOVO!
Palavras de ordem, turba violenta! Minha nossa! Eles estão tentando abrir as portas. Ei, calma, não, a porta não.
- Força aí nessa porta, Waldemar!- Segura aí, força, Roberval!- Opa, opa, abriu, abriu!!!- Tira o cara, tira o cara!
Me pegaram pelo colarinho, me tiraram do carro no braço! Porra, não tenho nada a ver com isso, só quero chegar em casa.
- Tá aqui, o passageiro tá na mão!- Quem tá na vez, quem tá na vez?!- Tonho é o da vez! Arrasta o cara, arrasta o cara!- É teu, Tonho, é teu!
Porra, esses putos estão me sequestrando é?!?!?
- Entra aí, compadre.- Mas que bosta é essa?- Livramos você desse motorista pirata, mermão, entra aí, vai logo!
Como se eu tivesse alternativa.
O coitado do motorista do Uber todo encolhido, os caras quebrando tudo. Que merda é essa. Me jogaram em um carro meia boca, cheirando a mofo e cigarro. O barulho lá de fora se misturava com a música gospel que tocava no som do carro e o chiado agudo do rádio da cooperativa.
- E aí, mano, vai pra onde? — Me perguntou um motorista com a camisa aberta até o umbigo, tipo Augustinho Carrara, e um palito na boca.
Sem opção, respondi.
- Vou pra Osasco e…- Ah, mano, Osasco? Nem fodendo, levo não, desce aí vai…

PS. Achei que inserindo chuva em uma CRÔNICA que acontece em São Paulo e terminando com esse final já deixaria claro se tratar de uma obra de ficção mas pelo jeito preciso ESCREVER isso porque tem gente que realmente não conseguiu perceber… vai lá, né…
Gostou do texto? Se gostou clica aí no “recommend”, logo abaixo, e ajude mais pessoas a conhecê-lo.
A primeira publicação brasileira no Medium. Uma produção colaborativa de histórias e tendências para instigar você!


This ultimate list is made for entrepreneurs, startups or anyone who want to become better in life and work. And i believe this will deliver some value or any value to someone or any one.
So let’s get started with free apps/tools today and make things happen!















































































































































If you liked this post, do click ♥ below and share with people around so others can enjoy this too.
Written by @terrytsang811, founder of entrepreneurguide.me — the awesome free guide for entrepreneurs, startups, freelancers, businesses and you. I also built plugins for WooCommerce and WordPress. To learn more and get in touch, visit http://terrytsang.com.
Entrepreneur . Business . Life
Sharing our ideas and experiences
We all love our coworkers, don’t we? Sure we do. Especially if one of them is reading over your shoulder right now.
But according to science, four out of five coworkers are annoying. There are many ways to deal with annoying coworkers, but obviously the most effective way is to picture them as rappers.
Picturing your coworkers as rappers makes you laugh and provides a helpful nickname that can be used when talking about them behind their backs. Here are a few.
When Two Cent asks if he can tell you what he thinks, it’s a rhetorical question. So, you play along and say yes, then sit there nodding. It doesn’t matter if it’s an email he wasn’t originally sent or a meeting he wasn’t originally invited to, he’s always there and ready to share his thoughts.
No matter what you do, you can’t get this coworker out of his cubicle. He skips meetings, he skips lunch, he sometimes even skips going home. If you approach his cubicle, he treats you like an alien from some faraway planet, which is exactly how you feel about him.
Like clockwork, you get an email from this coworker every Monday, Wednesday and/or Friday morning saying he’s working from home. You’ve started using his desk for cupcake parties.
If this coworker is already overloaded with work, why does he keep volunteering for more? Probably because he loves complaining that he worked all weekend and hasn’t slept in days.
No one expects perfection, except Nit Picky Minaj. No matter how hard you try to distract her with glaringly obvious mistakes, she skips past those and points out 10 ridiculously tiny things that no one else will care about.
EmineMBA is scheduling meetings for 8am, writing 20 page documents, and always wants to “pick your brain”. The summer never seemed so long.
You want to do it your way? Try again. Young Buck the System will never follow the process you set up, even if it did take you a year to do. You try to teach him a lesson or two, but no matter what you do, nothing gets through.
With Snoop Snoopy Dog, you need a screen protector for your screen protector. Whenever he’s near, his eyes are darting from your laptop to your phone to your tablet and back again. He should just take a picture, and there’s a good chance he has.
Young Sneezy is ill, but not in a good way. You tell him to go home, but he says he’s fine. Between sneezes and coughs, he’s touching your chair, your keyboard and your monitor, which explains why your desk smells like anti-bacterial soap.
Where’s the fire? There is no fire, but he’s in a rush anyway. He won’t wait for you to get off the phone before he starts talking, get out of the conference room before he’s starting his own meeting, or finish your sentence before he’s already replied to the email.
If you enjoyed this, follow The Cooper Review on Facebook!
Related: 14 Rap Lyrics You Can Use on Your Conference Call Today
Originally published at thecooperreview.com.
Comedy from the soul of my brain. Creator of http://TheCooperReview.com and author of upcoming book, 100 Tricks to Appear Smart in Meetings (October 2016)
Satire for Your Life Cereal
If you want people to like you, be 100% comfortable in your own skin. Hands down, there’s no more attractive quality than a person who is utterly comfortable with who they are. This quality transcends physical appearance, intelligence, education, income or personality. It is the cornerstone of success in business and in life.
Now, would you like the good news or the bad news?
The bad news, as you already suspect, is that your internal life is insanely complicated. Maybe your mother didn’t let you play with toys until you were 11, so you have low self-esteem. Maybe you grew up in the Pacific northwest and only saw the sun on every third Thursday, so you tend towards gloom and doom.
Maybe you are just brutally honest with yourself and have recognized that your hair isn’t quite as soft and supple as your most popular colleagues at work.
Just because I say “be comfortable in your own skin” doesn’t mean that — POOF! — you can instantly do it.
Now for the good news: your internal “comfort level” is not fixed; you can change it.
In the spirit of complete disclosure, if today you are insecure and self-critical, overnight you are not going to change into George Clooney. But you can certainly move in the right direction, and the more that you do, the more other people will like you.
To make progress, you need to do three things:
1.) Accept your qualities you cannot change. Don’t waste any psychic energy on all that stuff I said up top, such as how your parents raised you or whether your feet are too large. (If this is a sensitive point for you, I apologize and mean no offense.) By definition, being comfortable in your own skin means accepting your vulnerabilities as well as your strengths. For example, I have the skinniest ankles of any grown adult male you have ever seen, and it doesn’t bother me one whit.
2.) Recognize your ability to change is FAR greater than you once thought. You can’t change your height, but you can change how hard you work, how grateful you are for your blessings, how open you are to new ideas, how you approach difficult challenges, and how willing you are to pay the price for what you most want in life. This does not mean change is easy; it means change is possible.
3.) Be persistent. It takes time to build both confidence and competence. Invest the time, even on days when you feel as though you are sliding backward. Can you become utterly self-assured in a week? Nope. Can you do it over several years? Probably. Can you do it over a decade? Absolutely.
Why does this work?
To generalize a bit, no one likes incoherent thinking. We hate it when an attractive person complains about being unattractive. We dislike hearing someone make empty promises over and over again. Although we may not understand exactly what’s happening, we are not attracted to people who have obvious internal conflicts.
Or at least I’m guessing that’s what happens. All I know for sure is that most folks love people who accept who they are. You know what I mean: we’ve all seen people with obvious limitations utterly charm a room because they focus on their blessings rather than on their curses.
Personally, I’ve learned a lot about this subject by watching actors. How is it that Paul Giamatti can appear to be either totally charismatic and self-confident or weak and a total loser?
In 2001, the New York Times called Giamatti “an avatar of averageness: medium height and medium build, a little pale and unathletic-looking, with a receding hairline and not much of a chin.”
I’m no head-turner, but I can compete with that. Or maybe not. Here’s the rest of the NYT paragraph from which I lifted the above quote:
…his intense, friendly, nebbishy manner — he might remind you of Wallace Shawn or Woody Allen — along with his elastic features and infectious laugh have made him, if not a household name, at least one of the most employable supporting players in the business.
14 years later, Giamatti pretty much is a household name. This is a triumph of talent and confidence. He doesn’t have leading man looks, but his IMDB filmography just goes on and on and on.
When I have a bad week, I’m sometimes tempted to watch a big Hollywood star playing a complete loser. Think of Michael Douglas in Falling Down, where he plays an unemployed defense worker. The guy seems like such an average, pitiable loser… but in the back of my mind, I know he’s married to Catherine Zeta-Jones and that the two are Hollywood royalty.
Such a performance demonstrates that being comfortable in your own skin is not a function of how your skin looks; it is a function of what you believe inside.
My greatest lesson in life, bar none, is that people have a much greater ability to change than most recognize. So you have two choices.
If you like this article, please recommend it to help others find it!
Ghostwriter. LinkedIn Influencer. Skier. Will cross street to pat a dog. Check out my Day Old Lessons at http://www.kasanoff.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

Hi, my name is Isis. I’m a full-stack engineer at OneLogin. They asked me to be one of four others participating recruiting campaign that was hastily planned and executed in 1 day. I was not personally ready for the amount of attention that it has brought me.
I doubt that most of you know me. I am a passionate self-taught engineer, extreme introvert, science-nerd, anime-lover, college dropout, hip hop dancer, yoga teacher/hoop-dance teacher, really authentic friend and HUMAN(omg?!). In fact, if you knew me you would probably know that being famous is one of my biggest nightmares; seriously right up there with falling into a porta potty. I keep to myself most of the time and generally prefer when others mind their own business too.
I’m pretty blown away at the amount of attention my ad particularly has received. Friends have messaged me screenshots of their friends(who don’t know me) who have posted photos of it followed by discussion threads where it has received both positive and negative attention. Some of the responses warm my heart while others I consider to be kind of shocking… I will continue to post various threads that people send me on both sides of that spectrum.
I didn’t want or ask for any of this attention, but if I can use this to put a spotlight on gender issues in tech I consider that to be at least one win. The reality is that most people are well intentioned but genuinely blind to a lot of the crap that those who do not identify as male have to deal with. To list just a couple personal experiences:
I would like to add that both men responsible for these unfavorable experiences are not bad people. They are both socially-accepted, “smart” and “normal” guys. This illustrates one of the industry’s deep underlying issues. There is a significant lack of empathy and insight towards recognizing that their “playful/harmless” behavior is responsible for making others inappropriately uncomfortable. This industry’s culture fosters an unconscious lack of sensitivity towards those who do not fit a certain mold. I’m sure that every other woman and non-male identifying person in this field has a long list of mild to extreme personal offenses that they’ve just had to tolerate. I’m not trying to get anyone in trouble, fired or ruin anyone’s life. I just want to make it clear that we are all humans, and there are certain patterns of behavior that no one should have to tolerate while in a professional environment.
The negative opinions about this ad that strangers feel so compelled to share illustrate solid examples of the sexism that plagues tech.
“Caitlyn, when you were a man, we could talk about your athleticism, your business acumen,” Stewart said. “But now you’re a woman, which means your looks are really the only thing we care about.”
At the end of the day, this is just an ad campaign and it is targeted at engineers. This is not intended to be marketed towards any specific gender — segregated thoughts like that continue to perpetuate sexist thought-patterns in this industry.
As for the comments about the ad… Is it so unheard of that I genuinely care about my teammates? Some people think I’m not making “the right face”. Others think that this is unbelievable as to what “female engineers look like”. News flash: this isn’t by any means an attempt to label “what female engineers look like.” This is literally just ME, an example of ONE engineer at OneLogin. The ad is supposed to be authentic. My words, my face, and as far as I am concerned it is.
I didn’t ask for any of this attention, and I’m rather uncomfortable with all of it. I’m just a human and I prefer to keep my life simple/reserved, but it blows my mind that my fully-clothed smiling face with unbrushed hair and minimal makeup on a white wall is seemingly more controversial in some communities than this simply because of my gender:
Do you feel passionately about helping spread awareness and increase tech diversity?
Do you not fit the “cookie-cutter mold” of what people believe engineers “should look like?”
If you answered yes to any of these questions I invite you to help spread the word and help us redefine “what an engineer should look like”. #iLookLikeAnEngineer

My stories have become such a source of inspiration for so many people. I am now developing a team to build out www.ilooklikeanengineer.com, a safe platform for us all to continue to share our stories and experiences relating to diversity issues in tech. If you are a UX designer or know Ruby on Rails/Backbone and would like to help contribute, we would love to have you on board. Please reach out at the information provided on the landing page.
Some pretty amazing people, spearheaded by my co-workers wonderful wife Michelle, have joined together to make this movement make a lasting impact. I kind of fell backwards into all of this, but I really want to do everything I can to use the position that I am in to help make a positive impact. When this is all in the past, I would like to have created a larger impact on the community than simply generating a Twitter presence. Spreading awareness is the first step, but I want to help facilitate concise plans of action so we can create a genuine change. If you have any personal input and advice that you think could help make a difference please feel free to share it with me at isis@ilooklikeanengineer.com. You can help support us by checking out:

http://www.eventbrite.com/e/ilooklikeanengineer-with-isis-wenger-tickets-18026391422
Who knew one blog post could ignite such a profound movement? It can be very alienating to not fit a standard mold. Our goal is to bring together a diverse group of like-minded people from technology and science for a fun evening filled with activities, mingling and sharing our voices.
@isisAnchalee
*I give permission for press to use the material from this post*
Hoops and loops. Disrupting your sea of homogeny.
Home to some of the best articles on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.
It’s easy to fantasize about building a startup and making it big, but it’s much harder to turn those dreams into a reality. The media and entertainment industries have glamorized the process, neatly trimming the hard times of entrepreneurship to fit into feature length films and buzzy posts on social media. But for every story of a college kid turned billionaire, there’s an unsung hero hustling hard under the radar whom we can actually relate to. This is the story of how Ryan Graves helped build Uber.
Ryan started with a lot of hustle. He didn’t think he had any kind of intellectual capacity over anyone else that would set him apart. He’s not an engineer and wasn’t a great student. However, when he got to college, he realized the only way he was going to be successful was to out hustle everyone else. So that’s what he did. His grades picked up, and he began to develop a passion for hard work.
Ryan began putting career decisions first and soon found himself working at General Electric (GE). While at GE, however, he had an itch to build something himself. At GE, it was common to stay at the company your entire career and receive the gold watch upon retirement. Ryan didn’t want that. He wanted to start and grow something from scratch and try to make a dent in the world.
SocialDreamium was his side project while working at GE. It was essentially TweetDeck, and a short-lived project, but helped him gain product experience as a founder. With his co-founder, he wrote specs for products and sold them while wearing all the hats that startup founders do. It was an unsuccessful company, but it gave him the entrepreneurial outlet he needed while he was working at GE to feel alive.
If you’ve been following Uber over the past four or five years, this is the part of the story you’re probably familiar with: Ryan really wanted to get out of GE and work at a startup. His next attempt to break into startups was with Foursquare. After unsuccessfully applying several times, Ryan went door-to-door to bars and restaurants and convinced 30 prospects to run mayor deals on Foursquare. He sent his work to the company and was able to get an introduction to Dennis Crowley, who set him up with an internship at Foursquare.
While on Twitter one day, Ryan noticed a tweet from Travis Kalanick: “Looking for PM killer. Any tips?” Ryan was hustling and following Travis because he knew Travis was tapped into Silicon Valley and investing in companies. So Ryan followed up with: “Here’s a tip: email me,” and gave Travis his email. That was how he met Travis and Garrett. He flew out to New York to meet Travis and Garrett, and was finally able to capitalize on putting himself in the right position; he had a story to tell and Travis bought it. Ryan joined Travis and Garrett in getting ready to launch what was then called UberCab, eventually moving to San Francisco and growing Uber. It was all because of hustle, putting himself in the right position, and meeting as many people as possible.
Uber is killing it and Ryan’s there because he met Travis on Twitter. Travis isn’t the only person Ryan has met on Twitter; Ryan has made a lot of things happen on the platform. It’s not uncommon in the tech scene to meet people you would never have access to otherwise through Twitter. When you don’t have anything, you just have to hustle your ass off, and Twitter is one of the best ways to leverage your efforts.
Creating a successful startup means solving a problem in a scalable and profitable way. You can’t just go out there and talk to your users and do every single thing they want. You need to start with a problem. The problem Travis and Garrett found was very clear. The majority of incoming taxi requests on a Friday and Saturday night in San Francisco went completely unanswered. Clearly there was a problem there. Travis and Garrett developed a very elegant and simple solution for users (which hides a number of features on the back end that are quite complex) based on a real problem they personally experienced and were frustrated about. They scratched their own itch.
As you’re starting a company, not only do you need to be pretty excited about solving a problem, but you also must have a problem to solve. It’s easy to build another app because you can, chase the next social thing, or try becoming the next Uber for x, Airbnb for y, or Product Hunt for z, but there are a lot of real problems that are less sexy that have yet to be addressed. So find a problem and go after it.
Being an optimist in a startup environment can be difficult because everything is working against you. Building a company is like being in a boxing ring: you always need to be on your toes and you’re always getting clocked. People always think things aren’t going to work and that’s why, most of the time, things aren’t done.
It’s common for people to walk up to Ryan and say, “Oh man, I had the idea for Uber a few years ago. I did the research, but everybody said it couldn’t be done, so it didn’t make sense to do it.” As Ryan would think: maybe it doesn’t make sense. But the reason Uber exists now is because they believed it could be done and they were irrationally optimistic that they could get it done, and as a result, other people believed them too. Optimism breeds solutions. (Tweet)
It’s not fun to stay in on a Friday night when everyone else is out, but Ryan embraced this in ways many of us wouldn’t. Early on at Uber, Ryan spent his New Year’s Eves staring at Godview and making sure everything was working correctly. He wasn’t out throwing back champagne and partying it up. He was frantically on the phone with drivers and clients. He embraced personal sacrifice during a critical time in the business because he believed it would pay off. If you’re willing and able to do that, it’s going to set you off in the right direction.
Here’s a little more insight into this New Year’s Eve example. Ryan’s New Year’s Eve starts at 11:00pm, December 30th in San Francisco (6:00pm, December 31st in Sydney, Australia). Ryan and his team don’t stop working until 5:00am, January 1st in San Francisco. It’s basically a 30-hour marathon.
With all that being said, Ryan notes that you must take care of yourself. The media glorifies not sleeping and not taking vacations in startup life. It’s ok to realize that you do need to sleep and you do need to occasionally take a day off to recharge. No sleep isn’t cool. If you’re not well rested, then you’re not going to have the endurance to handle the biggest problems that are thrown at your company; you’re not going to have the energy to keep coming back at it after continually getting knocked down. Take care of yourself and have an outlet. When you take a weekend off and come back from that break, you are refreshed and excited to dig back in and take on the hard issues. Burnout does nothing to move your startup forward and undoes your previous sacrifices.
As an entrepreneur, there’s a ton of crazy ups and downs. You need to be able to talk to someone about what’s going on. When Ryan got off the phone with Travis from that initial tweet about Uber, he was so pumped. It was 1:30 in the morning, but his wife stayed up with him during the call and was totally supportive and happy for Ryan.
So Here’s the Kicker….
We’ve never actually met Ryan. We’ve never been to one of his interviews or his speaking engagements. We don’t personally know anybody that knows Ryan. We’re using the same hustle and grind that he’s used throughout his career to collect his advice here so more people can learn from him the same way we have.
Surprisingly, there’s not too much information about Ryan online. We scoured the internet and read every article that mentioned his name. We found several videos of Ryan and even found some old videos of him interviewing other entrepreneurs for a video blog he started in the mid 2000s (he actually interviewed Andrew Mason during the time when Groupon was called The Point). Lastly, we hunted through every single one of his tweets and direct messaged or cold emailed anyone that had a conversation with Ryan on Twitter to ask if they could provide us some information about him for this article. Most people didn’t respond, but we got enough responses to pull things together.
If you’re reading this, you know how much of a rat race Silicon Valley is. Outside of the Valley we constantly hear people tell us that it’s only about luck and timing. However, we believe that the Ryan Graves’ of the world would still be successful even if one of their initial companies didn’t work out. A quote attributed to Louis Pasteur says “Fortune favors the prepared mind.” People like Ryan Graves hustle, research, and prepare to know their industries and markets so well, that when the timing is right, they pounce on an opportunity and don’t look back.
So Ryan, we’re huge fans of your story (even if no one makes a movie about you, but they should) and we wanted to say thank you for showing us how to hustle and grind.
Co-authored by Danny Minutillo and Gabe Marcial
Find Gabe at gmarcial@tradecrafted.com or Twitter: @gabetheory
Find Danny at dminutillo@tradecrafted.com or Twitter: @danny_minutillo
Growth @Tradecraft | Excited about consumer tech and very early stage startups. Reach me at dminutillo@tradecrafted.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?



Got a graph/chart request? put it in the notes, or feel free to Tweet or throw it at Facebook. (Or you can find more over on Instagram)
I also have a desk for sale…
…and I write things when I'm not drawing things. Mostly about failing to do things, like this or like this other time.
Part 2 can be found here.
I write stuff, draw stuff, design stuff, build stuff. https://instagram.com/instachaaz/

When you’re a creative, unless you’re lucky enough to have a book deal or a paid publishing gig, you don’t have a lot of accountability. It’s a very privileged freedom, but it’s a freedom we pay for.
It means that most of the time, the world will keep spinning if you drop off the planet and never finish another piece of work. And it also means that you are the only one who can make you finish anything.
Because if you don’t push yourself, every day, to wake up and look in the mirror and ignore the feeling of near exhaustion that comes with balancing creativity and life itself, you could die without finishing anything.

There’s no end of examples of startup founders and rock stars and YA authors who have made absolute bank and never have to work another day in their lives. I wish I was one of them, believe me.
By all means, plan to make money. Work to make money. Capitalise financially on whatever success you have.
But if you want to build or create something of honesty and integrity, whether that’s a startup or an album of Japanese noise music, you have to be able to put aside that focus on getting rich.

We all want people to understand us, and understand our work, and understand what drives us. On some levels, the act of building something is an attempt to communicate in our own language. That could be an app, a line of code, or a book.
It’s going to get frustrating, and you’re going to want to scream.
You might even feel persecuted when people get the wrong end of the rope and try to hang you with it. Does it matter? No way. All that matters is that you listen to what drives you and you create what needs to be created.

Businesses can take a while to catch on, apps aren’t always an instant hit, and I’ve got news for the writers out there — even Kim Kardashian can’t sell more than 30,000 copies of a book. Most of us won’t be able to make a living off what we build right away. That’s where having a job comes in.
When all you want to do is work on your own project and create something that matters, it’s frustrating to have to set it aside every day and focus on the work that will make you money. The work that will pay the bills. The office job with the business suit or the 9-hour shift in a uniform you hate wearing.
But I challenge anyone to show me a job from which you can’t learn something. I flipped Burgers at McDonald’s for 5 years when all I wanted to do was paint skateboards, code websites and tour with a succession of shitty bands. It taught me how to manage people, how to manage my time, how to serve customers, and how to surprise and delight people when they don’t expect it.

The best thing I have ever written, in my honest opinion, is a 5-page short story about my experiences playing punk rock and hanging out with my best friends before life drove us apart. I love it, and I’m proud of it. Every now and then when I read through it, I honestly feel like I haven’t achieved the same raw emotion in anything I’ve created since.
Unfortunately, everyone I have shown it to can’t stand that piece of writing. They just can’t.
When John Romero made the video game Daikatana, he was creating the game that he dreamed of playing. Almost everyone hated it. I don’t know how he feels about it now or if he’s still as proud of it as he was when he first made it, but I do know that it was widely reviled.

There’s a flip-side to number 5. The work that you always felt let you down, the pieces and the concepts and companies that never quite lived up to your dreams could be what you are remembered for. You want to know why?

With the internet where it is, there’s no reason why you can’t turn what you build into at least a minor revenue stream. How? You treat it like a business. This is something I plan to expand on in a future post, but what it really comes down to is that…
You can take whatever creative work you are pursuing and turn it into a business if you try hard enough. But you have to treat it like a business. Have a product, have a marketing plan, and understand how to grow revenue. Read the $100 startup. Read almost any book on startups. Don’t be a starving artist, be a businessperson with a flair for painting.

…In fact, they’ll probably celebrate. Most people talk about Richard Branson, Paul McCartney and J.K. Rowling as though they were gods. Most people talk about entrepreneurs and creatives in hushed tones and admire them for being courageous and innovative.
I’m not sure why this is. I wish I was. As a general rule, if we all lived our lives by what the majority of people wanted us to do, there’d be no end of engineers, lawyers and doctors and there’d never be another novel published.
So when you start to doubt your path (and you will) there’s a good chance your friends won’t tell you to stick to your guns.

This is something that I find difficult to accept. It doesn’t matter how good anything I create is, it only matters that I get it finished.

You’ll never be able to create your best work if you don’t publish any work. You’ll never turn your startup into Google if you never get it past a landing page with an email sign up form and a vague concept of an MVP.
Read that line again until you believe it.
Now read it again until you can think of a better way of phrasing it.
See? It wasn’t perfect.
You have to be able to put aside your fears and your nervousness and commit to publishing your work, posting your music and launching your concept. You have to, because if you don’t, you will never accomplish the things you want to accomplish. And your dreams will die. And you’ll probably turn into a real tool.


See Also: https://medium.com/the-unlisted/how-to-make-something-people-give-a-shit-about-83486f42118c

Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

For many years, Photoshop was an ultimate go-to tool for designing digital interfaces. From simple web pages up to complex native apps.
Was, because designers most used software becomes out of date. I’ve realised this after trying its rising competitors — Sketch 3 and Affinity Designer. Frankly speaking, it was probably the first time I worked with different software than Adobe on UI design. I must say it was a very refreshing experience.
I’ve tried a different perspective. Another approach to UI design workflow and I liked it. It was Sketch that changed my look at my process. Because it’s intended to work as an interface design tool, its core logic is way different than the PS.
It embraces focusing on the design as… how to say, on the product? For me, its workflow is much closer to the way software/websites are developed. It won’t let you treat your design as painting canvas of some sort.
This experience results in this story. I realised how much software we’re using influence our workflow logic. Right now we’re at the very exciting moment. Photoshop is getting old. It’s slow, its core code is heavily outdated and after all it was made as photo editor not interface design tool. Former champion became lazy and got fat. At the same time rebels appeared. But none of them is perfect.
We’re right before the biggest change on the UI design tools market since Fireworks. It’ll go one way or another. Adobe will release the killing design soft, written from the ground, or its competitors will take the market for themselves.
Let’s stop for a minute and think — how would The Perfect UI design software look like? What toolset would suit designers needs perfectly and make our workflows most efficient? Or even revolutionise the way we’re designing interfaces? You can find mine 14 must-haves.
One of the biggest problems of Photoshop is its greediness. PS eats your computer memory like a monster and nonetheless — works slow. I recently found it difficult to work with one website design on MBP retina from 2014 with 8GBs of RAM.
It’s obvious that making software that’s faster and lighter is possible. Both Affinity Designer and Sketch beats Adobe flagship on his head.
No one likes when few hours of hard work wastes when software crashes. It’s a real problem with today design software. I think none of the most popular solutions works well enough.
Affinity has its child-age problems and crashes a lot, especially when using transparency tool. Photoshop is stable as rope bridge. I didn’t work in Sketch for some time, so I can’t tell how it looks today, but I recall some frustrating crashes.
Sketch is a winner here. Photoshop wasn’t meant as UI design tool at all. It’s photo editor in its core after all (regardless many additions here and there). Adobe introduced a beta version of UI design workspace in PS but come on. First of all they cut way too many functionalities. Second, it looks for me like Winamp skin. We need a truly dedicated software.
Meanwhile, Affinity looks little better than photoshop on this field but lacks any measurement tools. You can’t tell the distance between objects or scale an object by demanded percent value.
Sketch is almost perfect. Almost because it has almost every single feature needed, but it’s interface could be designed to be more usable.

For me, it’s a must have in today world. We’re designing for many devices, for many screen resolutions. Ability to easily rescale our work is a must have. Fortunately, software developers think the same.
Every single app I mentioned allows to create vector based designs. My favourite here is Affinity with its non-destructive booleans. The least comfortable to use is Sketch. It has limited capabilities.
You’ll need from time to time. To adjust photo colors or make some changes to raster graphics you use without leaving the app. Photoshop capabilities here are almost limitless.
Affinity has an efficient set of tools for the most of tasks. Besides this, there’s also sister app from Serif: Affinity Photo, which works great with the Designer.
Unfortunately, Sketch is really bad in this field. It’s almost impossible to perform any raster-based tasks in it. You may say it has its cons — It forces you to think carefully before putting something into your design, but. Sometimes you need to make some changes on the go. Sketch is clear looser here.
It’s my great problem with Photoshop. When you scale pixel layer down it’s being compressed and loose quality. Unless you convert it to a smart object first. But smart objects are heavy, slows down your work, and for me, they’re made for different tasks.
They’re great when you design e.g. button. You’re creating an object with button design then and copy it wherever you need creating instances. When you change button color, it changes everywhere. Great! But why making additional smarts just not to lose image quality when scaling?
Affinity is great here. You can scale an image ten times, and it preserves start quality. It’s awesome. I was amazed when I discovered it. Then thought come, that it should be obvious… thanks, Adobe, I felt like stone-age relic because PS take on that.
and give you a possibility to preview it in pixels in real time. And it has retina pixel mode! How great. None of the competitors comes even close.
The case? for me every single design should be grid based.
Beside that they can enhance UX by creating predictable patterns for users to follow. Yes, they’re crucial.
I’d like to have a simple tool for generating grids. One that will calculate and distribute them based on my inputs. I’d also love support for grid breakpoints, something no one supports today.
Just watch how it works in Sketch. I’d like to see it everywhere!
I’ve recently written an article about typography rules for beginners. You can find it here. Though I’ve outlined only the basics none of the most modern UI design tools supports all functions needed. No options of custom word spacing, hanging punctuation and so on.
Artboards allow you to create fixed frames on the open canvas. If you’re creating a responsive web design or a mobile app for different devices, you may want to turn each screen size into an Artboard. They’re great. Artboards allow you also to use smart objects or symbols across the design. All the screens in one file. Very convenient! Today, only Affinity Designer isn’t able to pull them off. I hope it’ll change soon.
New apps coming to the market means greater segmentation. Not everyone will be using the same product, and different teams have different workflows. In one the designer will send PSD files to the developer, in the other designer will produce a pack of assets for the developer. That means that a great software have to export designers work in different formats.
I like what Affinity is doing. It allows you to import PSD files (pretty well!) and export your Affinity made designs to PSD also! It’s great. PSD format is a standard after all and, it’ll stay that way for a while.
The last thing is very simple. In both Photoshop and sketch you can just right-click on the object and copy its CSS properties. It’s that easy. Affinity Designer lacks this function. And it needs to catch up on it very soon!
There is no perfect solution available for designers today. Although perspectives are promising. Above I’ve presented my vision. Things that are crucial for me to work smoothly and efficiently. I’m really curious, what would you like to see in The Perfect UI design tool? What functionalities would make you a better designer?
Thank you for reading,
Tom is a Senior Web Designer at GOG.com and freelance Product Designer & Art Director at Pixology.
Do you like my story? Share or recommend it please, I’ll be very grateful!
Senior Web Designer at GOG.com. Freelance product designer, art director and founder at Pixology. Music and typo lover. Gamer. http://www.behance.net/tomkoszyk
Interaction / Product / User Experience / User Interface / Design
There are Chinese and Russian translations of this article,and there’s a follow-up with Principle, Flinto for Mac & Tumult Hype.
I recreated the IF by IFTTT user onboarding in five different high-fidelity prototyping tools to get an idea of the differences between them: Proto.io, Pixate, Framer, Facebook’s Origami and RelativeWave’s Form.
See how these five recreations behave compared to the real thing:

Why did I select these five? I discovered that recreating something that is this animation-heavy (icons moving around in different directions and at different speeds) is not even possible in most prototyping packages. The majority of tools only let you connect static pages, while only the more complex ones let you animate different objects or layers within a given page.
I’ll explain it a bit more.
In a page-based tool, you lay out different screens, and then you make hotspots or buttons to connect them together. You tap a button somewhere on one screen to go to another screen. Page-based tools generally also have a choice of different transitions between screens, like fade in, slide in from the right, slide up from below, etc. It’s a bit clunky, but it’s a good way to make quick mockups when you’re still figuring out the flow of an app (which and how many screens are needed, how they would appear, where buttons should go, etc.).
Examples of page-based tools are: Briefs, InVision, Notism, Flinto, Fluid, Mockup.io, Prott, POP, Marvel, Balsamiq, Red Pen and Keynotopia. Granted, in some of these tools you can have animations or scrollable areas within a page, but you cannot use them to emulate every interaction possible in real native apps.
Every asset, interface element, or in other words, layer can be made tappable, swipe-able, draggable… but also animated. Prototyping a complete app in a tool like this would be crazy, though; it would be too much work (you might as well build the real app). But they’re great for trying out new interactions, or for tweaking the timing of an animation.
Proto.io, Pixate, Framer, Facebook’s Origami and RelativeWave’s Form are the tools I tried. To be honest, there are a few others — Axure and Indigo Studio — but they seem to be more enterprisey (read: rather expensive). I might try them out some other time.
So, onwards with the chosen ones.

Proto.io is a surprisingly powerful web app; it has many, many functions. But because everything works by drag-and-drop, clicking buttons and selecting values from lists, it can be a bit overwhelming sometimes to find the setting you need.
Because of the nature of the IF prototype — different objects moving at different speeds — I had to add several custom JavaScript calculations. The provided single-line text field was too small for the lengthy calculations so to have an overview I kept them in a text file on my computer. Important to note is that these JavaScript expressions can fail without warning. Be sure to check the console of your web browser when something doesn’t work. (I had an error caused by a variable containing a negative value.)
This is rather annoying: you have to click [Save Project] and then [Preview] every time you want see the result of the changes you made.
Not many. The animations are less fluid, though, because I had to attach many interactions containing custom JavaScript calculations to the scrollview. It’s not too bad on the web, but it’s way too slow on a device. Playback speed seems to be more normal for simpler prototypes.
view on Proto.io Spaces (sign up to import it to your account)

iOS app:Proto.io
Android app:Proto.io Player
Price:$29/month or $288/year for 5 active projects.There are also plans for 10, 15 or 30 active projects, and a free 15-day trial.

Pixate seems to strike the right balance between ease of use and functionality: it can do a lot more than the simpler page-based tools, but the learning curve is not too steep: after going through the User Guide and video tutorials you will be on your way. There are also several demos that you can deconstruct to see how they’re made.
Pixate Studio can use Xcode’s iOS Simulator (on Mac) to run the prototype. You can also connect with the iOS or Android app over local WiFi. This works great, especially because both (Simulator + app) update instantly.
The sixth page is missing, because the canvas in Pixate is only so wide.
view in app | download .pixate file

Mac or PC application:Pixate Studio
Mobile apps:iOS | Android
Price:Pixate StudioFree! (It used to be $149, until Google bought Pixate in July 2015.)Pixate Cloud$5/user/month or $50/user/year. (There is a free 30-day trial.)

As you probably know, Origami is built by the design team at Facebook working on Paper. Origami is not a standalone program, it’s kind of a plug-in for Quartz Composer, a visual programming environment that is part of Apple’s developer tools.
You program in Quartz Composer by connecting patches to each other. Different patches have different functions, and Origami is mainly a set of extra patches made for app UI design. Many people (not me, though) will prefer this to having to write code, but when you have to describe something like “if this, then do that, with the value from this calculation, but if not…” you’ll still have to program, but by connecting several patches instead of writing lines of code.
On a side note: IDEO also created a prototyping framework based on Quartz Composer, called Avocado. It has a few functions that might be handy for some projects: Bluetooth integration, an iOS interactive keyboard, a dial patch for scroll wheel-like interactions and a flippable card patch. Layers can also be made draggable.
This is going to be difficult. You can of course make a screen-recording of your prototype, but this defeats the purpose of making an interactive prototype; you might as well make something in After Effects. The only real way to try a prototype on another machine is to have the same setup. So if your client uses a Mac, she can install Quartz Composer + Origami to run your prototypes — after registering as an Apple Developer, of course.
It might run a bit slower than the real thing, depending on your computer. Quartz Composer is quite a power hog, and might have your computer’s fan spinning, especially when your Mac doesn’t have a powerful graphics card (like my Mac mini) or have a few monitors connected (guilty). I get maximum 20 fps, even when using just one monitor.
download .qtz file

Mac application:install instructions
iOS viewer:Origami Live
Price:Free! You do need an Apple Developer account, but that’s also free, as in beer, or whatever Apple developers might drink.

No dragging and dropping, pushing buttons, or connecting dots here — in Framer you will have to code. Programmers will feel at home, designers maybe less so. But it’s not too hard — Framer Studio uses a simplified version of JavaScript: CoffeeScript. But the fact that the actual engine (Framer.js) uses JavaScript makes for a lot of possibilities: you can do everything that’s possible in a web browser, so you can connect to servers to use live data, or create a Twitter client that shows real-time tweets.
With one click you can generate a public page (like this one), which can be viewed in Chrome or Safari, or in a mobile browser. (The link can be added to the iOS home screen as an ‘app’.) The same link can also be opened in the viewers (actually just chromeless browsers) for iOS and Android. A big prototype like this one might take several seconds to load in the viewer, but then it animates smoothly.
This prototype does a bit more than the other four: you can switch between the Sign in, Sign up and Reset Password modes on the last page. (You cannot actually log in or sign up, but even that would have been possible to recreate in Framer.)
view online | download .framer project

Mac application:Framer Studio
iOS app:Frameless
Android app:Framer
Price:Framer.js, the JavaScript framework, is open-source and free.Framer Studio is $99. (There is a free 14-day trial)

Form is still very young (it launched September 2014) and is clearly inspired by what Facebook and IDEO are creating on top of Quartz Composer. The folks at RelativeWave probably thought, “How would Origami look without the Quartz Composer baggage?” Origami users will feel right at home; many patches are the same and Form contains only the patches you need.
The prototype actually runs in the (WiFi or USB) connected iOS app. You’ll notice that there is no readout of the values when double-clicking a connection between two patches if no device is connected. A viewer in the Mac application, like in Quartz Composer, would definitely be handy, and seems to be planned.
The (free) iOS viewer can open .form files, so you can just email the file to the client for them to run on their iOS device.
Not many, I think. Let me know if you find any.
download .form file

Mac application:Form
iOS app:Form Viewer
Price:Free! The Mac application used to be $79.99, but when Google bought RelativeWave last November (only months after launch) they made it free.

If you have not yet used any of these, and want some quick prototyping done:
But if you’re ready to invest time into learning a powerful tool:
I’ve gotten acquainted with all of them (at least a bit), so I might use different tools for different situations:
Update: There’s now a follow-up:

These tools are all very young, and we’re all still figuring out what the best way would be to do interaction design, but I see a great future for Framer. I like the versatility and performance of Framer a lot, and I’ve found the perfect excuse to play with it some more: I’m writing a book about Framer!
The Framer book will be a manual for people without any programming experience, starting with the basics of CoffeeScript. It will also contain a bunch of tutorials in which you rebuild popular apps. And the book will show you how to add real data to your prototypes using a Parse or FireBase backend, or plug in live data from services like Twitter, Flickr, Dribbble, etc…
Sign up on framerbook.com to receive an early-bird discount when the book is released.
Originally published at cptv8.com.
iOS dev & app prototyper (Dutch, English, Spanish, some Русский)
A collection of design stories, tips, articles, tutorials on Sketch and prototyping, and more design content. Curated by the Sketch App Sources team ☺
We get it. You’re morally superior to the rest of us. Please stop writing posts on Medium about it and go to bed.
Coffee, Power Pop, Software, Cat-eye Glasses, Femme, and Queer. I worry about identity. Shoegaze bands turned me into a girl.








(and when you are done, read the FAQ)
If you subscribe to a subscription music service such as Spotify or Apple Music you probably pay $10 a month. And if you are like most people, you probably do so believing your money goes to the artists you listen to. Unfortunately, you are wrong.
The reality is only some of your money is paid to the artists you listen to. The rest of your money (and it’s probably most of your money) goes somewhere else. That “somewhere else” is decided by a small group of subscribers who have gained control over your money thanks to a mathematical flaw in how artist royalties are calculated. This flaw cheats real artists with real fans, rewards fake artists with no fans, and perhaps worst of all communicates to most streaming music subscribers a simple, awful, message: Your choices don’t count, and you don’t matter.
If you love music and want your money to go to the artists that you listen to, consider this simple hack. It’s easy to do, breaks no laws, does not violate any terms of service, directs more money to your favorite artists, but doesn’t actually require you to listen to any music, and best of all, it could force the music industry to make streaming royalties fair(er) for everyone. Sounds good, right?
So let’s cut to the chase. Here’s the hack:This September, when you aren’t listening to music, put your favorite indie artists on repeat, and turn the sound down low.
You might be saying “Wait a second, turn the sound down? How the heck does that do anything?”
Good question, let me explain.
Streaming services (Spotify, Apple, etc.) calculate royalties for artists by putting all of the subscription revenue in one big pool. The services then take out 30% for themselves. The remaining 70% is set aside for royalties.
This giant bag of royalties is then divided by the overall number of streams (aka “plays” or “listens”). The result is called the “per-stream royalty rate”.
The problem lies in the fact that this “Big Pool method” only cares about one thing, and one thing only: the overall number of streams. It does not care even a tiny little bit about how many subscribers generated those streams.
So why is this bad?
Imagine a hypothetical artist on a streaming service. Which do you think that artist would rather have: 10,000 fans who stream a song once, or one fan who streams it 10,001 times? Seems obvious, right? 10,000 fans is much better than one fan! But the Big Pool method, which only cares about the number of clicks, says the single person is worth more!
The message to artists and fans is crystal clear: the only fans that matter are the ones who click a lot. Everyone else can suck it.
This is bad for the artist, but astoundingly it’s even worse for streaming services: if each subscriber is paying $10 a month then those 10,000 subscribers would generate $1.2M in annual revenue, while the single user only generates a measly $120. Clearly the services benefit from getting more subscribers, not more streams, so why are they incentivizing streams and ignoring subscribers?
Even more backwards, the Big Pool method encourages the acquisition of heavy-usage subscribers, who are the easiest customers to get and retain (in fact most “music aficionados” are already subscribers), but offers little for light-usage subscribers, who are not only the hardest customers to get and retain, but are more profitable (by not requiring as much bandwidth) and most importantly dramatically greater in number.
It’s as if a car dealership paid the biggest commissions to the employees who sold the fewest number of cheap cars, and completely stiffed the employees who sold lots of expensive ones!
If the Big Pool rewards artists who get lots of streams, major labels can sign artists who can get a lot of streams. But what if artists aren’t the only ones getting lots of streams?
Click fraud is rarely discussed in the context of streaming music, but it’s fairly simple for a fraudster to generate more in royalties than they pay in subscription fees. All a fraudster has to do is set up a fake artist account with fake music, and then they can use bots to generate clicks for their pretend artist. If each stream is worth $0.007 a click, the fraudster only needs 1,429 streams to make their $10 subscription fee back, at which point additional clicks are pure profit. But that’s assuming they even paid $10 for the subscription in the first place: it’s possible to purchase stolen premium accounts on the black market, making the scheme profitable almost immediately. The potential profits are substantial: At Spotify it only takes 31 seconds of streaming to trigger a royalty payment, which means as many as 86,400 streams a month can be generated, resulting in over $600 of royalties. At Apple Music the threshold is just 20 seconds, making it hypothetically possible to clear 129,600 streams and $900 in royalties in just one month!
Awareness of click fraud in streaming music is so widespread that developers make apps to facilitate it. The services will tell you they work hard to make their systems secure, they pay bounties for people to find bugs, and once in a while they even catch and ban click frauders. But security researchers are not impressed, many people are not getting caught, and ultimately we have to confront the simple fact that there is no such thing as a foolproof way to prevent click fraud.
If the amount of click fraud activity on Google, Facebook, and Twitter is any indication (estimated to be over $6 billion a year), the problem could be far worse than any of the services will admit, or possibly even realize, and there’s no way for artists or fans to determine how much revenue has been stolen. It’s like someone sucking the oil out from under your property: you don’t even know it’s happening.
Click fraud is not the only way to cheat the system. One band made an album of completely silent tracks and told their “fans” to play the blank album on repeat while they slept. If a subscriber did as instructed the band earned $195 in royalties from that single subscriber in just one month. But if each subscriber only pays $10 in subscription fees, then where did the other $185 come from?
It came from people like you.
The media suggests that Spotify was the one being “scammed” by this “clever” and “brilliant” stunt, but in reality Spotify suffered no financial loss at all. The $20,000 that the band received didn’t come out of Spotify’s pockets, it came out of the 70% in royalties earmarked for artists. In essence what happened is every artist on Spotify got paid a little less thanks to an album with no music on it.
To understand why, we need to talk about how “average” can be an illusion.
One of the most misleading words used in the streaming music industry is the word “average”. You’ll often see streaming services bragging about how their “average” user is streaming x number of hours per day, particularly when they are pitching advertisers. But don’t be fooled by the word “average” here — it’s an illusion. Average does not mean typical.
Think of it this way: imagine you are in a room with a random group of people. What is the average income of everyone in the room? It’s likely that roughly half will be above average, and the other half will be below average.
Now what happens when Bill Gates walks into the room?
Everyone in the room is below average now, thanks to Bill.
The same effect is happening in streaming music: a small number of super-heavy-usage subscribers have raised the “average” usage to the point that most subscribers are now below average.
We can illustrate this with a graph:
To understand how heavy-users wind up in control of your money, it helps to look at how royalties flow at the individual level:
Every user pays $10 a month, which generates $7 in royalties. If the per-stream rate of $0.007 is determined by dividing overall revenue by overall plays, then simple math tells us the “average” subscriber is streaming 1,000 times (1,000 * $0.007 = $7.00).
So if you stream 200 tracks in a month you will send $1.40 to the artists you listened to (200 * $0.007 = $1.40), and the remaining $5.60 of your $7 is now up for grabs. So who’s grabbing it?
Well, let’s imagine a heavy-user who streams 1,800 tracks in a month. As a result of all this streaming they send $12.60 in royalties to the artists they listen to (1,800 * $0.007 = $12.60). Since they only contributed $7 towards royalties, they are $5.60 short. Guess where that money comes from?
You.
It’s worth noting that many (if not most) of these heavy-usage “subscribers” are probably not individuals at all. They are actually offices, restaurants, gyms, hair salons, etc. Businesses like these can stream up to 24 hours a day — far more you as an individual could ever hope to do. And they probably don’t share your taste in music either. But they pay the same $10 you do, so why do they get to decide where your money goes?
It’s like you bought a CD and the store told you that you had to listen to it 1,000 times, or they will give your money to Nickelback.
That’s fucked up.
There is a better way to approach streaming royalties, one which addresses all of these problems, and it’s called Subscriber Share.
The premise behind Subscriber Share is simple: the only artists that should receive your money are the artists you listen to. Subscriber Share simply divides up your $7 based on how much time you spend listening to each artist. So if you listen to an artist exclusively, then that artist will get the entire $7, but if you listen less they get proportionately less.
As an example, if you listen to Alt-J 25% of the time, then Alt-J would get $1.75 ($7.00 * 25% = $1.75):
Let’s compare this with the Big Pool: if you typically stream 200 streams per month (that’s roughly 13 hours of streaming), then playing Alt-J 25% of the time would equal 50 streams. Since each stream gets a flat $0.007 per stream, the band will recieve just 35 cents. (50 * $0.007 = $0.35)
Click here to see how this looks in real life, with a real subscriber.
A nice feature of Subscriber Share is that it is very difficult to turn a profit with click fraud: instead of turning $10 into $600, a fraudster would be turning $10 into $7, and would waste a lot of bandwidth while doing so.
If the fraudster used stolen premium accounts (reducing their cost from $10 to $1 per account), they could still make as much as $6 per account, but that is nowhere near as attractive as making $600 is it? And the difficulty level to do this at scale goes way up. If the industry switched to Subscriber Share most click frauders would move to greener pastures.
Subscriber Share can also be a huge benefit to small bands just starting out. If a band has a respectable fan base of 5,000 fans then they need $12.06 from every one of these fans in order to earn the federal minimum wage for four people, $60,320. In years past they would sell their fans a CD. But now under the Big Pool they need an ungodly number of streams to make minimum wage: 8.6 million streams.
This means every single fan has to stream the band’s music 1,716 times. Assuming a four minute song that’s over 114 hours of listening, and if their fanbase averages 200 streams per month then that means their fans would need to listen to the band 71% of the time for an entire year!
Subscriber Share only requires the fans to listen to the band 14.36% of the time, so if the typical fan averages 200 streams a month, then just 29 streams a month is sufficient, and the fan will only spend 22 hours in total listening to the band’s music. This is far more plausible for a new artist.
But intriguingly, Subscriber Share also enables fans to financially support an artist using even less effort: If a band can convince their 5,000 fans to listen to them exclusively for two months, the band will earn $70k, and the fans will only have to click once each month in order to do this.
Subscriber Share enables listeners to directly support the artists they care about without having to expend extraordinary amounts of energy to do so.
The result of Subscriber Share is that each and every fan winds up being far more valuable to artists. It honors the intent of the listener, and incentivizes getting more fans, bringing the goals of everyone (services, labels, artists and fans) into alignment.
If you think about it, this is how most of the genres we love got started in the first place. Hip hop, jazz, blues, reggae, punk, grunge, etc, all came from a small group of musicians, and a small group of fans, supporting each other. Who was the biggest beneficiary of this in the end? The music industry.
It boils down to two big obstacles: fear, and inertia.
To be fair, the music industry has been on the wrong end of the economic stick for well over a decade now, and talking about changing royalty methods just as it seems like things are about to get better is understandably scary.
The other problem is inertia. Institutions hate change, it’s expensive and hard, and you have to rethink everything attached to that change. Inevitably various special interests will arise and fight for the status quo. It can be very tricky to overcome their objections.
So it is difficult for the music industry to change, even when they know it’s in their best interest. They are like a cat stuck in a tree. They got themselves up, and can’t figure out how to get down.
If the industry is immobilized by fear, and can’t be persuaded to move in the right direction with logic, then one possible way to get them to get them out of the tree is to make it even scarier if they don’t move. In other words: We need to scare the cat out of the tree.
And that’s where our little hack comes in…

A critical aspect of streaming music services is that the services can’t tell if the volume is turned down. If the music is playing the “clicks” still count, even if no one is listening. This can be used to our advantage.
Normally a typical subscriber can’t keep up with heavy users, in part because many of these heavy users aren’t even individuals to begin with: they’re actually offices, hair salons, gyms, yoga studios, and restaurants. But if typical subscribers streamed music 24/7, and just turned the volume down when they weren’t listening, then maybe they could catch up!
And if these silent protestors streamed strictly independent artists, major labels would have to worry about the value of their streams decreasing! That could be enough to persuade them to reconsider the use of the Big Pool method, and if the major labels jump out of the Big Pool tree, the rest of the music industry will follow.
Even a small number of people engaging in this silent protest will have a measurable impact: just doing it for one day will double most people’s monthly consumption, and doing it for one week will result in more streams than a typical subscriber consumes in a year! But obviously the more the merrier. So let’s throw the idea out there and see what happens:
Note: It’s recommended that you turn the volume low, but not all the way to zero, and you should change your selected indie artist on a daily basis (or even better use playlists with multiple artists), so that you aren’t mistaken as a bot by the services.
If this works the music industry will be forced make royalties fair(er) for all musicians and fans. If it fails a couple of indie bands will get a bigger check than usual. What have we got to lose by trying?
A constantly updated FAQ can be found here
It’s that little box at the bottom on the right with an arrow coming out of the top. It looks like this:
Can’t get the word out unless you help get the word out!

Use in whatever way you like (Use as your social media profile pic in September, or sell t-shirts, bumper stickers, sponges, laser pointers, etc. if you want, it’s totally up to you!):
CEO & founder: @Bandago (van rental with fun stuff), father of two boys, ping pong enthusiast. Previously: guitarist & songwriter for @creeperlagoon
An ear for the new, a heart for the classics.

About me: I built Caskers. Now I’m building Native.
The Hair of the Dog is a sports bar located in the Lower East Side of Manhattan. Like most sports bars in New York, it has an ungodly number of televisions, a beer pong table and 3.5 stars on Yelp. More importantly though, Hair of the Dog has a single dollar price rating (“$”), which is really important when your goal is to be drunk by 3PM.
In October 2013, my cofounder and I were in negotiations to sell Caskers, an ecommerce site we founded just 1.5 years earlier that sold spirits (think booze, not ghosts) online. The negotiations had already dragged on for a few months, and we were just days away from our scheduled closing date. If you’ve ever been in the same situation before, you know that your mind starts wandering and thinking about all the possibilities that could still derail the sale of your company. It also starts thinking about ways you could spend millions of dollars, but you try not to put the cart before the horse.
The week before my company was sold, there was little I could do except sit around and wait. My team (there were three of us at the time — my cofounder, our first employee and me) would come into the office around 9AM and finish up whatever pressing tasks we had for the day by noon. Then, we’d head down to Hair of the Dog and try to kill time by drinking until happy hour ended at 8PM. The week we spent at Hair remains a hazy blur for me, but I’ve had more than a year of sobriety to reflect on the business that I started, grew and sold. These are the five most important lessons I learned from my time at Caskers.
Lesson #1: Be Frugal
While most startups these days seem to spend money lavishly, we built Caskers on a shoestring budget. We had come up with a business model that didn’t require inventory (much less office space). The backbone of our website was an ecommerce plugin for WordPress that was free. We customized a theme that we had purchased for $35 to the extent that we could, and hired a developer in India to help us build out what we couldn’t. Our largest initial expense was actually our logo, which we got after running three design contests and cost $800. In total, it only cost us $1,200 to build our entire website before launching.
After we launched, we focused on growing the company as frugally as possible.
Being incredibly frugal was the most important lesson I learned at Caskers. Since we never spent any money, we never had to worry about running out of cash. In addition, being frugal allowed us to offer incredible value to our customers: every dollar that we saved in terms of our own expenses was another dollar we could pass along to our customers in terms of lower prices.
Lesson #2. Be Relentless
When we launched Caskers, we had no marketing or advertising budget. As a result, I knew that we’d only be able to build brand awareness and acquire customers by (i) making a product that people loved and shared with their friends and (ii) getting editors at news publications to write about us.
I was relentless in hacking growth. Here are a few days I did it:

Ultimately, we were able to generate millions of dollars in revenue without spending a dime on customer acquisition.
Lesson #3: Be Experimental
We were focused on growing our community as fast as possible and experimented rapidly with new ideas. If something was working, we’d devote more of our time to it. If it wasn’t, we scrapped it and tried something new.
Here are a few examples of things we experimented with:
Experimenting with new ideas to market our company and sell spirits consumed a large amount of my time. Without experimenting though, Caskers would not have been a fun place to work. More importantly though, Caskers would not have grown as quickly as it did.
Lesson #4: Be Careful
Ultimately, a startup is the sum of all the things you do and all the things you don’t do. There were many things we didn’t do, some for better or worse.
Being a startup founder requires making live-or-die decisions with limited information and finite resources and under intense pressure. Making decisions quickly is important, but rushing into decisions is a mistake.
Lesson #5 Be Resolved
One of the greatest challenges I faced as a founder was to ignore the noise of other startups. While other startups were raising rounds seemingly effortlessly, it was difficult to accept, much less be proud of the fact that my company hadn’t raised a dime and didn’t employ anyone (other than my cofounder and me) for a long period of time. Looking back on it, it’s easy to wear our lean operation as a badge of honor but at the time, it felt like we were failing.
Each startup is unique and the best way to build a successful company is to capitalize on your strengths and overcome your weaknesses. I learned that I couldn’t be pressured by the success of other startups — I learned to be resolved so that I could build the company I wanted to build.
In terms of what I’ve learned, in terms of the experiences I’ve had, and in terms of the friendships I’ve formed, starting, growing and selling Caskers has been the greatest experience of my life. So Far.
About Me: I was the cofounder and CEO of @Caskers. Now I’m the founder and CEO of Native. Follow me on twitter.
I built @Caskers. Now I’m building @nativecosmetics.
Sharing our ideas and experiences
When Material Design was announced, I was impressed with Google’s efforts to raise their game in the design field. It’s something that Apple had always been ahead. Not anymore. I remember complaining a lot about Android design’s inconsistencies, lack of documentations, unattractive dark theme and overuse of the ambiguous Hamburger menu. Material Design solved a lot of that. It now offers a consistent design language that is lighter, more colorful, backed by solid guidelines that are well-considered.
But while the colors are pretty and the use of cards give a great sense of depth and tactility, I often asked myself, is this really better than Apple’s iOS Design as a lot of designers say it is? I’d like to give some of my thoughts on why I think it’s different, not necessarily better.
Let’s start with the 3 core principles in iOS: Clarity, Deference and Depth.
Clarity is about text legibility, obvious icons and good contrast. Clarity can also be platform-specific. What’s clear to iOS or Android users highly depend on what they’re familiar with. An icon may be instantly recognizable to iOS users but not to Android users, and vice versa.
Depth is another principle that both platforms share. But they approach the concept differently. iOS promotes blur and gradients while Android gives priority to drop shadows and the concept of paper.
Despite what most say, both platforms replicate real life in major ways. They’re skeuomorphic using blur, drop shadows and animations that use physics and realism of space. Skeuomorphic design was helpful to introduce new concepts using familiar metaphors, but the overly detailed textures and 3D effects definitely ran its course. As users, we outgrew it because technology is no longer so foreign to us. We’re at a phase where a leathered calendar or vinyl disc make less sense than a digital concept.
In both of these design languages, there are weaknesses.
For example, it looks off to have multiple layers of blur on top of each other. Also, the vibrancy added can be too much.
The card concept looks completely different on a circular screen. The card takes the full width. The alignment of the text feels off because there is a lot of unnecessary negative spacing. Lists are also hard to use on a circular screen since the corners hide a major part of the content.
These Android Wear faces look awesome though. This truly feels like the UI was made for a circular screen.




Deference is where it differs a lot. iOS gives total priority to the content while Android uses the concept of cards to make the content seem more tactile, thus losing important real estate in the left and right portions of the screen. The overwhelming colors also take priority over the content.
The FAB (floating action button) hides the content and gets in the way of the interactions.
Inversely in iOS, the focus is more on the content. The color of the UI is more neutral and contextual (they change based on the content). Vibrant colors are used minimally, mostly for actionable items.

There has been a long debate on whether we should use the Hamburger menu. That debate is far from over. Even Apple sparsely use it in their designs.
But it’s safe to say that we generally see them more in Android since Material Design encourages them.
iOS favors the Tab bar for navigation. Interestingly, LukeW pointed out that obvious always wins. Facebook switched to the Tab bar for iOS and they saw an important increase in user engagement.

But there are situations where the Hamburger menu can be a good idea, like when your most important content is your front page. Options inside it need to be secondary, like settings and logout.
Material Design uses colors prominently. Yes, they’re pretty. So was the Flat UI color palette. We can all agree that pastel colors look very nice in most situations, unlike the flashy ones that come by default in CSS or Xcode.
But Material Design uses those colors in their header, sometimes even to replace content. When you have a lot of competing colors, it de-prioritizes other elements.
Colors do have meanings, but those meanings can be quite limited (E.G. red means alert, yellow means warning, etc). Colors do express a brand, but branding shouldn’t be front and center in the UI of your app. In fact, the App Icon is the place where branding is most appropriate. So before you absolutely want to use a color alone in your header, you might want to consider something more expressive. Something that explains exactly what your app is about.
Again, that may make sense in Android, but not in iOS.

I have to admit that I used to think that having one design language that is consistent across all platforms is the best way to go. But unfortunately that lead to designing an Android app using the iOS design language. It made sense from my point of view, but ultimately it was bad for the users. Android users are simply not familiar with iOS.
Material Design’s goal to unify all platforms is a valiant effort, better than anything I’ve seen in this respect. But is it really the best way to go?
Is the Card concept really working on Android wear, which sometimes has a circular screen? It doesn’t seem like the language considered the devices first. Instead, it feels like an afterthought.
If you look at the Apple Watch, the design was completely rethought for the Watch. This means that there are new UI paradigms that had to be considered specifically for the Force Touch, the Digital Crown, wrist detection and the black bezel.
Everything from how the Material should be manipulated and elevated to how the colors should be combined is explained in their guide.
The good side of having strict style guides is that it’s hard to go wrong. It’s like Bootstrap. It provides a consistent and convenient system. The bad side is that it limits creativity and will make most apps homogeneous.

Don’t get me wrong, there are a lot of things that Material Design does right. It just seems like every designer sings praises without truly considering the weaknesses.
For one, their new Design spec is world-class, giving guidance on a variety of design topics that will benefit you beyond the scope of Material Design.
The concept of cards is one that generally works well across the board. It’s flexible and modular. It can definitely work with Web — designers have been using them way before Mobile came along. But I believe that the smaller the screen is, the less it makes sense.
As I mentioned before, pastel colors were hardly a new thing. But the Flat UI trend and Material Design really popularized it. We’re going back to the basics in order to achieve harmonious colors and beautiful typography. That’s a great thing. The more we know about the foundation of design, the better we can shape the pillars that come on top of it.
The animations in Material Design are elegant and delightful, albeit not as innovative as people make them out to be. Before iOS 7 came, transitional interfaces were still a fairly new concept. I’m glad that both guides are promoting smoother, more progressive animations to guide our users rather than scream at them for attention.
There will never be a perfect design language or template. The purpose of this piece is not to discourage one or the other, but to offer perspective their strengths and weaknesses. Design is about picking the best for the intent. So go ahead, experiment and see what works for your product. Just don’t forget to consider the people and devices that you’re designing for.
I wrote a few things about iOS, Android and code. You can find me on Twitter at @MengTo. Thanks for reading!
I design, code and write. @mengto
The most important news related to Android, Tech and everything else…

10) Always get the full story before making a decision.
9) It's incredibly easy to 'flip the switch' and start writing people off after a few bad experiences. Resist at all costs. You were bumbling once too. You made poor decisions. You learn and grow, and so does everybody else.
8) Sweep up the crumbs. Wipe the tables. Turn off the lights. Plug the holes that need plugging—even if it's menial, even if nobody will know you did it. Do it in service of the product, the company, and this wondrous, magical thing you are all building together.
7) Recognize you can't do everything. Close your eyes, fall backwards, and learn to trust.
6) Clearly, there is a more efficient way to do the things you do. How? Ponder that on your daily drive home.
5) Figure out which people rely on you and how you can help them be self-sufficient. You may feel important having a monopoly on salmon provisions, but if the whole village learns how to fish, it'll free you up to do something else. Like figuring out how to grow wheat. Or how to domesticate those cute wolf-pups.
4) Don't say anything if it's not actually contributing to the discussion. Your voice is not so melodious that it absolutely must be heard.
3) Making the best decision is not as important as putting in the right processes to ensure that the best decisions get made.
2) Dole out thanks and encouragement like you dole out opinions.
1) Above all, this: never, ever get in the way. It's better to twiddle your thumbs and squint up at the clouds than to obstruct progress for the sake of that stupid, childish thing called ego.
This is a personal list, and perhaps gently biased by what I do (manage designers) and where I work (Facebook) and how the imprint of many talented others have affected me. I don't claim to do all these things well nor every day. But this is the little voice that greets me in the morning, the whisper at the end of each day, the shadowy outline of some dazzling ideal that I catch a glimpse of every once in a blue moon. This is the aspiration. This is the manifesto.
Product design director @ Facebook. Self-professed tyro and lover of food, games, words. Follow me as @joulee or on  www.juliezhuo.com
A collection of essays by Julie Zhuo on design, building products, and observing life.

“If it turns out that this is incurable, would you marry me?” is not your traditional marriage proposal, but then again, Andy and I haven’t lived traditional lives.

Andy and I first met after literally running into each other at a White House reception honoring the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender community in June of 2012. I was fortunate enough to have been invited after coming out publicly as a transgender woman while serving as student body president at American University just a month before. Andrew, 26 at the time, had come out as a transgender man several years prior and was now a leading LGBT health policy advocate in Washington, DC.
I hadn’t given our clumsy “meeting” at the White House much thought until I received a charming and suave Facebook message from that handsome guy two months later. His friends now tell me that he spent hours writing and re-writing the short message, in which he asked me out for coffee or drinks. After several online conversations and a few more chance encounters while I interned at the White House, we finally managed to find some time to go out for dinner.
We quickly found that we had far more in common than our transgender history, no doubt an important component of our identities, but still only one part. We both had a passion for law and politics, a love of “trash television” as he would call it, a desire to travel, and incessant need to be right. We both got involved in politics after an intense interest in film. We both loved Star Wars, although his love dwarfed anything I could muster. And we both had an obnoxious affinity for baby-talk and nicknames, he was the “big bean,” to my “little bean.” I still maintain that I certainly had the better deal: he was generous, loving, smart, funny, and enjoyed just the perfect mix of hard work and play. Many of the traits I’d find common in people from his beloved home state of Wisconsin.
In no time we were attached at the hip. Just a few weeks into our relationship he accompanied my family and me on a trip to Barbados. I quickly became part of his family and he quickly became part of mine. In no time, he was my partner and my best friend. To top it off, we even ended up becoming colleagues, when I joined him to work at the Center for American Progress. We began to talk about our future together, believing that it stretched far beyond anything we could imagine.
Our relationship took on a whole new dimension when Andrew was diagnosed with oral cancer in his tongue in September of 2013. I thought and hoped that the succeeding few months would be the toughest that we would have to endure for some time. In October, Andy underwent a twelve-hour surgery to remove part of his tongue and reconstruct it with a graft from his arm. Just as he relearned how to talk and eat, he had to undergo an intense regimen of radiation and chemotherapy that left him in so much pain that he could barely breath without a stabbing sensation in his mouth.
And then in April, he was proclaimed “cancer free!” As frightening and as stressful as that experience was, it gave us a bond that few couples our age develop so quickly. When we received the positive results in April, we knew we were not totally out of the woods yet, but we began to start to plan for our lives ahead.
But then the world that he had rebuilt after his first diagnosis came crashing back down in July of 2014 when he developed a mild, but persistent cough and chest pain. After several tests and a short hospital stay, the news came back like a punch in the gut: Andy’s cancer had returned and had spread to the lungs.
It was in the 24 hours after this news that Andy asked me, “If it turns out that this is incurable, would you marry me?” Of course the answer was yes. Andy had always wanted to get married, but prior to this new diagnosis, there was never any rush. He was only 28 and I was just out of college.
When we got the news that the illness was “life shortening,” as doctors say, his soul was understandably crushed. At the time, we were told that with treatment, he would probably have about a year left.
The next two weeks were a blur of silence, disbelief, and crying. Lots and lots of crying. Crying about the fear of death. Crying because he wouldn’t be able to see his family and friends grow up. Crying because, as he said, “he wouldn’t be around to say ‘I love you, bean,” or ‘I’m proud of you, bean.’”
And as the crying gave way to determination — determination to both live as long as possible and as much as possible — we decided to move forward with a wedding.
Andy was scheduled to start chemotherapy in the next few weeks in order to perpetuate his life. Because we thought we were operating with a year left, we tentatively set our wedding for mid-October. Both of us had always wanted a fall wedding anyway; the colors, the temperatures, and, for a DC couple, the lack of humidity were all appealing.

But on Thursday, August 14th, the third full day of Andrew’s second stay at our local hospital and two weeks before he was supposed to start treatment, one doctor threw a wrench into our plans and cold water on Andy’s hopes.
“I’m saying you might not make it to treatment,” the doctor said.
These were the first words I heard as I walked into Andy’s hospital room after taking a shower back at our apartment. As I came around the corner, I saw the stunned look on Andy’s face.
“So you think I may only have two weeks?” Andy asked, his face as white as the Wisconsin snow he may never see again.
“Yes,” the doctor continued and then paused. There was silence. I wasn’t quite sure where he was going next. He seemed to be deep in concentration, which would make sense given the gravity of the news he had just delivered.
“Hold on, there is a fly. Let me kill it.” He lifted his hands up, getting ready to smack the fly to death. The silence continued, only broken by a loud clap.
The body of the fly fell to the floor. The doctor paused again, said “hold on, let me pick it up,” as he slowly bent over, lifted the fly’s body, and threw it in the trash.
I wanted to scream at the doctor’s coldness, but I was stunned into silence by both the news and the indifference with which it was delivered.
After 45 seconds, which naturally felt like an hour, Andy, who couldn’t bare awkwardness, finally broke the silence and said to the doctor, “nice job.”
Eventually, the doctor continued. He instructed us that one of Andy’s lungs was failing at a rapid rate. “You need to decide whether you will want to go on a respirator. Just know, though, given your condition, if you go on a respirator, you will likely never be able to be taken off. And to put you on a respirator, you will have to be sedated, and, given your condition, you will likely never wake up.”
Moments later, another doctor came in and apologized profusely. It seems she had over-hydrated Andy after thinking his heart was racing from a lack of fluids. The doctor who had just delivered Andy’s “two-weeks notice,” seemed surprised and slightly relieved that there was a potentially reversible reason for the episode. The cardiologist prescribed some medications and reduced his fluid intake. Sure enough, Andy rebounded and by that afternoon was better than he had been since being admitted to the hospital in the first place.
As the two doctors left his room, we were confused. Did Andy have two weeks left or was his rapid decline of this morning merely a temporary problem that was easily fixed? Unsure, Andy turned to me and said, “Two weeks? I’m not ready for this ‘A Walk To Remember’ shit.” He had been fighting to live, but now it seemed he was merely fighting for a year.
Over the next few hours, neither doctor returned to our room with any more information. We asked any medical professional who entered our room for an update, from the nurses, to the palliative care team, to the young hospitalist. No one could provide much clarity as to what we were looking at in that moment. The general consensus was that Andy didn’t look like someone with two weeks left. In fact, by that evening, he was stable enough that the decision was made to discharge Andy in the next few days.
The next day, after Andy’s mother had suggested moving up the wedding, I broached the subject with him. He seemed to receive the idea well, although with concern that moving the date meant something about his prognosis. I explained that we weren’t moving the date because his prognosis had changed, but rather that the chemotherapy would take more out of him than we anticipated. Determined to reach the wedding, he said, “Let’s do it.”

The first full day back at the apartment, our friend and colleague Bishop Gene Robinson, the first openly gay bishop in any major Christian denomination, came by our apartment to discuss the possibility of a wedding. After talking with Bishop Gene for about an hour, we decided to move forward with a wedding that weekend, then just five days away.
Bishop Gene, as well as several close friends, offered to do all the planning, logistics, and organizing for the wedding. All we had to do was to get the marriage certificate, for me to buy my dress, and to make the occasional decision. Given Andy’s limitations, we decided that we would host the wedding on the roof of our apartment building, a beautiful space for about fifty that has magnificent 360 degree views of Washington, DC.
Over the next several days, as preparations for the wedding continued, Andy’s situation deteriorated. With each passing day, he could walk less and required a little more oxygen. He slept more and more. Daily tasks that once took five minutes for Andy, now took thirty minutes or an hour with the help of multiple people. Eventually, eating became a labor for him, taking him four hours to down fifteen spoonfuls of an ice-cream/medicine mix.
The only respite from the constant struggle to keep him nourished and hydrated came when I would talk with him about the wedding. You could tell he was trying his hardest to stay awake and alert for those conversations.
A few days earlier, Bishop Gene had sent us a draft of the wedding ceremony based on the Episcopal Church’s service. With Andy’s permission, I went through and edited it for us. I removed any mention of death in the ceremony and replaced it with “forever and ever.” Given his condition, I also reduced the amount of lines we had to speak to three simple sentences:
“I do.”
“That is my solemn vow.”
And, “Please accept this ring as a symbol of my abiding love.”
I knew he would not be able to remember these lines, so I wrote them out, as well as the last sentences before them. After working on the service for about an hour, I came out of our bedroom and asked him if we could go over it.
By this time, Andy was sleeping most of the day. His activities were looking less like someone with ten or even two months left, and more like someone who had a week or two. I tried reading the entire service to him, but he fell asleep pretty quickly. When he awoke, I decided to only read to him his parts and the sentences before his lines, including the line, “Will you honor and love her forever and ever?”
After I asked him if he was okay with that and told him that I had made a cheat sheet so he didn’t have to memorize anything, he started to drift off to sleep again. As his head began to fall back and his dreams came again, I heard him mumbling. I wasn’t sure if he needed something, so I walked over to his chair and leaned in.
He kept mumbling the same thing over and over again. I leaned in further to hear him more clearly, “forever and ever, forever and ever, forever and ever…”

The morning of our wedding — August 24, 2014 — came without incident. No shortness of breath. His eating had marginally improved. The weather, which had initially been forecast to be rainy, turned out to be the nicest day of the month. Mid-80s, sunny, just the right amount of breeze. Our families had come in from out of town. Old friends and new friends were ready and excited. It was turning out to be a beautiful, albeit bittersweet day.
I was getting ready in our neighbor’s apartment across the hall when about an hour before the ceremony one of Andy’s best friends knocked on the door. He was out of breath and clearly shaken.
“Andy just had an episode. He started to collapse and go unconscious when he was moving from his recliner to his wheelchair. He is awake and his vitals are okay right now, but we called the police and the EMT’s are on their way.” Luckily, my brother, a radiation oncologist, had offered to be with Andy while he got dressed for the wedding and was there to help.
With my hair up and my wedding dress still hanging on the wall, I ran over to our apartment. I found Andy in the recliner with my brother and our friends around him. I walked up and he apologized, “I’m sorry, are you mad at me?”
“Of course not, beanie,” my nickname for him, “Of course I’m not mad at you.”
As we heard the sirens approaching our building from the outside, my brother asked Andy several questions to ensure he hadn’t had a stroke.
“What is your name?”
“Andrew Cray.”
“Where are we?”
“My apartment in Washington, DC.”
“What is today?”
He got the date wrong by a few days, but also answered, “my wedding day.”
The EMT’s entered the apartment and made their way through the medical equipment and wedding supplies. With the caterer preparing the small amount of food for our wedding in the next room, the EMTs performed an EKG and consulted with my brother. Andy was adamant that he did not want to go into the hospital, knowing what that would mean for our wedding and for his chances at chemotherapy. With his vitals normal, the EMT’s acquiesced.
As they left, I asked Andy if he wanted to move the wedding into the apartment or to cancel it all together. He shook his head and said, “No, this is happening.”
As I walked back across the hall, my brother informed me that he wasn’t sure Andy could make it up to the roof in his wheelchair, but that we would see how he did over the next half an hour.
But my Andy rallied. With the help of three people, Andy was able to get into his dress clothes and, with oxygen in tow, he made it up to the roof.
I exited the elevator just as Andy was being wheeled onto the rooftop patio. As the elevator door slid open, I could see the back of Andy’s wheelchair moving down the narrow path to the opening on our roof where our wedding was to be held. As he approached the fifty family members, both blood and chosen, they started to applaud for him, unaware that just an hour earlier, EMT’s were in our apartment ready to take him to the hospital.
Clearly feeling as though he had conquered the world, Andy lifted his arm in triumph and gave the group a big thumbs up, his trademark. After they quickly switched Andy from the portable to stationary oxygen supply, I made my way out to the roof on my father’s arm.
I had no idea what my wedding was going to look like. Our friends had put it all together for us in five days with hardly anything more than a color preference from us. And it was beautiful. The bouquets included my favorite flowers — purple orchids and blue hydrangeas — a fact that was unknown by the friend who ordered them. Andy was stationed under a white tent surrounded by flowers and sitting in front of our dream officiate, Bishop Gene Robinson.
As I approached Andy, I could see him starting to choke up. We had always talked about getting married and he had asked me several times if I thought we would some day.
My mother says that it was clear Andy loved me from the first time we met and clearly always wanted to spend the rest of his life with me. I don’t know about that, but what I do know is that we were committed to each other for life long before we got married. Our ceremony on that day merely formalized, before family and by the state, what was already a reality between us. We had been through so much together. We were already bound together by both the superficial, like our love of reality television, and the deep, like our mutual commitment to equality and social justice. We had each walked beside the other during some of the most trying times in our lives.
Fortunately, we got through the ceremony without any problems. We exchanged our rings and committed ourselves to one another. He had forgotten the cheat sheet downstairs, so he improvised his lines. Shortening them so they wouldn’t make him short of breath or cause him to cough.
After taking a few pictures and receiving a few hugs, Andy was exhausted and decided to go back to our apartment with a few of his friends. I remained on the roof with our remaining guests for another hour and then went back downstairs to be with my new husband.
The first thirty-six hours of our marriage were a lot like the previous thirty-six. There was nagging over his food intake, a lot of sleeping, and a boatload of comforting reality television.
What was different was that Andy had three more episodes like the one he had just an hour before the wedding. Each time, he was about to move from his recliner to his wheelchair or from his wheelchair to the recliner. Andy was a nervous person and would clearly get anxious before these moves. As he got anxious, he was unable to adjust his breathing, would get light-headed, and begin to pass out. As we would temporarily up his oxygen and call his name, he would return to us. Within seconds, he would shake himself out of it and look at me. In typical Andy fashion, he would say, “I’m so sorry, love, are you mad at me?”
“No beanie, I’m not mad at you at all. I love you so much,” I would reply each time.

The next morning, by the grace of God, Andy was able to make it down to the car for the forty-minute drive to Johns Hopkins Hospital with me and his ex-girlfriend, Heather, to begin treatment that was meant to perpetuate his life.
We arrived at Hopkins to first meet with his oncologist prior to starting chemotherapy. As the doctor walked into the exam room, we knew things had changed. He hadn’t yet known about Andy’s episodes, but the blood work that was done the previous week showed some concerning numbers. The doctor warned us that we may not be able to proceed with chemotherapy today, but that he would send Andy up to the infusion room for some liquid, since he was, despite my attempts to prevent it, clearly dehydrated. After a few hours, he would re-evaluate Andy and determine what, if any treatment, he could give him. He also ordered more blood work and told us that he would come meet with us in the infusion center after the tests came back.
As we waited in the center for more information, it was clear that Andy’s situation was getting worse. In just a matter of a few hours, his oxygen hunger had increased dramatically. I heard rumblings from the nurses outside our station that one of the patients would need to be admitted.
I stepped outside and approached his infusion nurse and asked her what was happening. She said that they were going to have to admit Andy today. Both of us had been told that being admitted would make it highly unlikely that he was healthy enough for any life-perpetuating medical care.
I offered to tell him the news that I knew would shatter him. As I walked back, I opened the curtain with the nurse following behind. I tried as gently as possible to tell him that they were going to admit him. Ever the optimist, he knew what that meant, but he didn’t give up hope. He talked about how they could try to stabilize him again so that he could be ready for chemotherapy. Just as he gave me a wink of assurance, the medical oncologist returned and informed us that some of the tests had come back and the concerning numbers had jumped higher.
A few minutes later, I met with the oncologist outside of Andy’s station. He said that intubation, or the process of putting Andy on a respirator, was possibly imminent. He asked if he had any wishes on that front. He didn’t have to say what that meant as the fly-killing doctor from two weeks ago had already painted the grim picture: if intubated, Andy would never be able to be weaned off, nor would he likely ever wake up. I asked the oncologist how long we had to have the conversation. After all, he had just been given the news that he was being admitted. Couldn’t I give him some time? “Unfortunately, no.”
After Andy had been “upgraded rooms,” as I had jokingly put it to him during the admittance process, I said that for “precautionary reasons,” we needed to talk about the question of intubation. The nurse brought us a blank advance directive and we sat down for the first extended conversation since our wedding: whether or not he would want his life continued in a persistent vegetative state.
He stared at the paper for a good ten minutes. He asked if we had to talk about it now, but Heather and I informed him that the doctor said we needed to, again “as a precaution.” He sat with his pen for another few minutes and finally marked the box that said, “If my doctors certify that I am in a persistent vegetative state… and there is no reasonable expectation that I will ever regain consciousness…Keep me comfortable and allow natural death to occur.”
I called our family and friends to ask them to travel to Baltimore to be with us. His mother, step-father, father, and my mother came immediately. For the next two days, a rotating group of ten to twenty people stuck by our side at the hospital. The same group, which had organized our celebration of love just three days before, stood by in a circle of love in his hospital room as he slept more and more.
A day after he was admitted, he was unconscious nearly all the time. Every once in a while, he would regain consciousness, smile at us, squeeze our hands, and ask that his oxygen be turned up. He would rotate his fingers with a look of urgency in his eyes signaling his desire for more oxygen. Each time, we would have to inform him that the oxygen was as high as it could go.
Wednesday the 27th was the last day Andrew was awake. Just before he went back to sleep for the final time, I told him, “I love you.” He raised his eyebrows and mustered the energy to say four words back. These words would be the only words he would speak that day and the last words he would physically speak ever. “I love you, too.”
We were told the next morning it was probably only a matter of time. And echoing a conversation I had the night before with one of our best friends, the nurse said that sometimes you have to lean in and tell the person that it is “okay to go” because they are afraid of disappointing people. The group of five people in his room looked at each other and all thought, “that is so Andy.” So one by one we all leaned in and told Andy that it was “okay to go.”
I was both the first and last person to convey this message to him. I leaned in both times and said, “I love you, beanie, I’m going to miss you every day, but it’s okay for you to go. No one is going to be mad at you.” I then slipped a handwritten note into his clenched fist, which by then had become fairly cold. “You are loved,” it read.
Three hours later, his vitals began to drop. I called for everyone in the lounge to come in. We all stood there as his oxygenation level — the key stat for someone battling cancer in the lungs — dropped from a reasonably health 95 to 85. Then to 75. Then to 65. His numbers were reaching fatal levels.
Crying, we gathered around Andy in that circle of love which remained constant throughout his final stay in the hospital. A rainbow of family — gay and straight, trans and cisgender — held tightly onto him. His breathing diminished. His heart rate slowed. And at 3:30 PM on Thursday the 28th, with the gifts from our wedding five days earlier still unwrapped back in our apartment, Andy passed away.
That night, the group, which gathered to plan our wedding, gathered to plan his funeral. Bishop Gene, who had officiated at our wedding, would preside. Those who had stood at his bedside with me would eulogize him. The family of relatives and friends would join together again to mourn his passing.

His service was held at St. Thomas’ Episcopal Church in Washington, DC on Saturday. Bishop Gene wore the same frocks that he wore at the wedding the weekend before; he explained that Sunday’s wedding was a celebration of life and love, and so too was today.
Tributes from all around the country began to flow in. From the Mayor of DC, officials at the White House, state and national equality organizations, and from friends, relatives, acquaintances, and total strangers around the world who had been touched by Andy’s story and his work.
Andy was one of the amazing few who could draw upon their own life to help others without actually talking about himself. He worked tirelessly to bring joy, meaning, health, and fulfillment to others lives. He had stood up to the intolerance and prejudice in the world to live authentically, only to have cancer end his life a few years after he began to live true to himself.
There are many lessons I take from his passing, but the biggest is that though we may feel invincible, we never know how much time we have left. Life is too short for outdated dogmas to impede our own pursuit of happiness. Despite growing up in a progressive family and with open-minded friends, the expectation from the outside world that we must live, love, and identify based on one fact at birth, kept Andrew inside of himself for too long.
In his early twenties he finally had the courage to be happy and complete. Getting cancer was not a choice. There was nothing that he could have done to avoid his ending. But our society’s prejudice that kept him from being complete for most of his life is a choice. For Andrew, and for all the people who simply want to make the most of their lives, let us make the choice to stop the hate and to let love, light, and authenticity flourish.
And yet despite this tragic end, it’s clear that Andy lived with more purpose and realness in 28 years than most find in 60 or 80 years. He loved and was loved. He befriended and mentored without regard for status or interest in gain. He gave others courage through the bravery he demonstrated; not just throughout his struggle with cancer over the last year, but also through the authenticity with which he lived his own life every day. Through his work, he helped open up health care to hundreds of thousands of LGBT Americans and spearheaded the national effort to ensure that transgender people can access the care they desperately need, but are too often denied.
Few, if any, have ever taught me as much as Andy did. He taught me about life, perseverance, compassion, optimism, fidelity, and passion. He was one of the most impressive people I’ve ever met, yet one of the humblest (it’s amazing he could tolerate me). Even in his final weeks, he cried less about his own luck or plight, but about the things he would no longer be able to do for others. That was Andy.
So thank you for coming into my life, my bean. So many medical professionals said, given your state, you shouldn’t have made it to the wedding. But you did. I don’t know if you held on for me or for you. But, in the end, you gave me the best gift anyone could ever ask for. Thank you for sending me that first Facebook message in August of 2012 and thank you for marrying me one year ago. But most of all, thank you for being you.
‘Tis strange how men find time to hate, When life is all too short for love; But we, away from our own kind, A different life can live and prove. And early on a summer’s morn, As I go walking out with you, We’ll help the sun with our warm breath To clear away the dew, My love, To clear away the morning dew.

Political nerd, LGBT advocate, Delawarean, AU alum, board member at Equality Delaware, LGBT Progress Staff.  All opinions are my own and inherently right ;)
Here there is hope, humor, and help as you deepen your connection to others, yourself, and to your work.

I was looking for a more effective way to consume all the content I save during the day and fit it inside my busy schedule. I mostly save articles I see on Medium (+ occasionally articles from big tech websites), and my bookmark section is growing almost daily. The only thing is that I have no time to read them all. Even by end of the day… I hate myself for this, because I’m missing so many great stories.
I was thinking someone could read the articles to me (if I can’t handle it myself)… Maybe some app? Text-to-audio?
On the other hand, I still want to feel the emotion of the story and not listen to some robot reading. Every. Word. Separately. With. No. Accent.
Sooooooo what now?

I listen to a lot of podcasts, shows or talks in the background while I work or when I walk to the office, and I think it could be awesome to do the same thing with my saved Medium articles — listen to them as audio instead of reading them as text.
The whole functionality allowing this feature could be handled inside the existing mobile app. There is no need for a standalone app.
How?
Let’s take a look on the existing Medium iOS app and its article detail screen. Focus on the white bar in the bottom of the screen, which is used to introduce features available for each article. You can see “bookmark,” “like” and “share” icons. What about adding one more icon that allows you to play the article as audio?
It fits perfectly with the overall style of the app and fits the existing usage pattern of having similar features at the bottom of the screen.


If you want play the article as audio, you can just tap this little icon to open the audio player, and that’s it. Happy listening!
Nice, huh? Let's focus on the technical side now…


You may be wondering where all the audio content could be made, what kind of text-to-voice software could be used in the background, etc. I think there is no need for such things. Writers could record themselves reading their own work and attach it to the story as an audio file.
Of course, adding an audio version of you article should not be required. Once you finish writing your story in the current version of the app, you are asked to add a few tags to help readers find your story. I think there is the best opportunity to ask for one more thing — a recording of your story.
Note: Users should not be pushed to record anything, but if they are asked to do something extra, they may feel they are improving their readers’ experience by allowing them to consume articles in a new way.
To give you a better idea about how it could look, I made a quick mockup to compare the current version and my version:

I also tried to design a recording screen using the existing UI style and colors. Again, the whole flow fits the existing style of the app. It’s a bit similar to adding tags, which is already something you can do.
All you have to do is press the microphone button and start reading. I was also thinking about adding some kind of indicator for highlighting words to help you maintain rhythm/speed while recording your story. But I wasn’t sure about the correct implementation. It may be confusing for users if they loose track on this indicator, and it could mess up their recording.
Once you finish recording, you can save it and go back to the “publish” screen, which will be in a different (finished) state. You can see the tags you selected and attach the audio file you just recorded. Hit “publish,” and your story is out…
Of course, this is just a quick concept I came up with in a few hours. But imagine how many things could be added soon or later. Just to mention a few of them:
Got more ideas? Feel free to add comments :)

Is it just me, or do you guys have the same problem? Let me know in comments or write a short response to this article. It would also be interesting so know what the Medium staff thinks. I’ll keep you posted in case they contact me.
— — — — — — — — — —
Let's be friends!
Ales Nesetril, UI/UX designer with passion for minimalism & simplicity, currently working for STRV between Prague and San Francisco.
Twitter, Dribbble, Behance, Instagram, Email
STRV is a top-tier, one-stop mobile app development shop working with top-tier startups from Y Combinator and 500Startups, among others, across offices in San Francisco, Los Angeles, New York and Prague.
User Interface Designer with passion for minimalism & simplicity, currently at @STRVcom — #ui/ux, #skateboarding, #electronicmusic, #ps3
The Medium Community







For more detailed reads of the sketches above:
Product design director @ Facebook. Self-professed tyro and lover of food, games, words. Follow me as @joulee or on  www.juliezhuo.com
A collection of essays by Julie Zhuo on design, building products, and observing life.


In this quick write-up, we’ll cover how to take advantage of your existing knowledge of features in Sublime Text and apply them to another powerful tool in your arsenal — the Chrome DevTools.
Thanks to several modern tools including DevTools, JSBin and Codepen relying on the excellent CodeMirror editor, keyboard bindings like those in Sublime Text are more readily available elsewhere than they have been.
Let’s assume for the rest of this write-up that we’ll primarily be working inside the DevTools Sources panel — a feature which, when paired with Workspaces gives you a powerful in-browser editor.


Very similar to Sublime, DevTools has a Goto “Anything” dialog. This can take you to a specific file, a line number or a method definition. You can bring up the Goto “Anything” search using Ctrl/Cmd + P. This lets you search/filter through files just by starting to type in the files name. To search for a method — such as a JavaScript method or a CSS selector, use Ctrl/Cmd + Shift + P and start typing in the method name.

`Ctrl` + `G` will toggle a dialog allowing you to jump to a specific line in a file. If you wish to go to a line in the current file, bring up the dialog and type in a colon followed by the line number you are interested in. For example, :25 will take you to line 25. If you wish to go to a line in a different file, type in the file name, a colon and then the line number (e.g app.js:25).
Go to end of a line: `Alt` + `Right` or `Cmd` + `Right`Go to the start of a line: `Alt` + `Left` or `Cmd` + `Left`

Go to the start of a file: `Alt` + `Up` or `Cmd` + `Up`Go to the end of a file: `Alt` + `Down` or `Cmd` + `Down`
Go one word left: `Ctrl`+ `Left` or `Alt` + `Left`Go one word right: `Ctrl` + `Right` or `Alt` + `Right`
Go up a line: `Up`Go down a line: `Down`

A caret is that blinking line that indicates where you’re typing at the moment. Similar to Sublime Text, DevTools can have as many carets as you want.
Adding multiple Carets
You can start playing with carets by opening any supported file in Sources, then selecting each line by holding down `Cmd`/`Alt` and clicking wherever you would like to add a new caret.
For example, if you have multi-line JavaScript that needs to be prefixed, edited or wrapped in quotes, multiple carets can make this a breeze.
The following steps will quickly get every line selected:
1. Click on the first line2. While holding down `⌘` and `Option`3. Drag your mouse through the rest of the lines
You should now have a cursor somewhere on each line.
Use multiple carets from the front of a line
Use `Cmd` + `←` ( `Alt` + `←` for Windows/Linux) to bring all cursors to the front of the line, and then hold down `Option` while using the arrow keys to jump by word. When in front of the file name, simply type in your prefix and you’re done!
Wrap with Quotes or Brackets
Highlight the words with `Cmd` + `Shift` + `←` ( `Ctrl` + `Shift` + `←` for Windows/Linux) and type an opening quote or bracket. Dev tools will wrap each word in the selected quote or bracket.
Column selection
Carets can similarly be used for selecting custom columns of text. Hold down `Alt` and then click and drag over the region of text you would like to select. DevTools will highlight the area and you can now copy or edit it as needed.
Carets and matching words
Carets can also be used for highlighting specific words. Select a word in your editor (it can be a variable, method, or anything really). DevTools will highlight other instances of this word with a border around them.
Now use `Cmd` + `D` (or `Alt` + `D`) and DevTools will highlight and place multiple cursors on the matching words. This is particularly useful during batch rename operations. Hitting D a few more time while still holding ⌘ selects the next instance of the selection found. By hitting ⌘, then D three times, you can select three iterations of the text.

When working with non-complex pieces of code, you might find it tricky to find corresponding opening and closing brackets with your naked eye. `Ctrl` + `M` allows you to instantly move your cursor there. Using it twice will jump to its opening or closing counterpart.

We know the importance of indentation. It helps keep our code readable and easy to understand. To increase or decrease the current line’s indent, use the shortcuts below:
Indent text: `Tab`Unindent text: `Shift` + `Tab`

If you need to comment/uncomment a piece of code, the same shortcuts you would use for this in Sublime Text also apply:
Comment text: `Cmd`/`Ctrl` + `/`Uncomment text: `Cmd`/`Ctrl` + `/` on the same section of text.
This works across all languages and works pretty well with lines or whole selections.

When typing values in the DevTools Sources panel, you’re presented with autocompletions as you type. If however you dismiss these and would like to manually toggle autocompletion, you can do so with:
`Ctrl` + `Space`

You can cut, copy and paste text using the same shortcuts you’re used to in other editors:
Cut: `Cmd` + `X`Copy: `Cmd` + `C`Paste: `Cmd` + `V`Undo: `Cmd` + `Z`Soft undo: `Cmd` + `U`Redo: `Cmd` + `Y`

Note: ⇞ and ⇟ are page up and page down. On an Apple keyboard, you can page up/down by holding fn + ↑/↓
In the Sources pane, you can select a numeric value and easily increment or decrement the value using your keyboard. Highlight the value and then:
Increment CSS unit by 1: `Option` + `↑`Decrement CSS unit by 1: `Option` + `↓`Increment CSS unit by 10: `Option` + `⇟`Decrement CSS unit by 10: `Option` + `⇟`
The Styles pane also supports shortcuts for incrementing/decrementing values.
Increment value: ↑Decrement value: ↓Increment by 10: ⇞ or ⇧↑Decrement by 10: ⇟ or ⇧↓Increment by 100: ⇧⇞Decrement by 100: ⇧⇟Increment by 0.1: ⌥↑Decrement by 0.1: ⌥↓

DevTools can now also preserve your position cursor history in Sources. This lets you cycle through your previous editing locations using Alt- and Alt+:

If you’ve found the above shortcuts helpful, you can pull most of them up via the DevTools settings menu. It looks a little like this:

The Settings page also allows you to configure how the editor behaves. This includes customizing the default indendation, toggling bracket matching, autocompletion and the display of whitespace characters.


Similar to your editor, the DevTools UI can also be customized (the theming for the syntax highlighting, the colors across each of the panels, the look of UI elements like tabs). Some of these themes make intelligent use of color to highlight the key pieces of UI in DevTools without taking your focus away from the code.
Some of our choice picks for DevTools themes are the following:
To install a theme:
Boom. You should be good to go. Themes can be found in a number of places, including the Web Store, DevThemez.com and GitHub.

DevTools also supports a few nice debugging helpers that can further augment your daily editing & debugging workflow. For instance, while debugging you can preview the inline values of JavaScript variables at the current point in time. Super powerful.

We hope you’ve found these DevTools tips helpful!.
Many of the SublimeText equivalents we’ve covered here work equally as well in other editors and we encourage you to spend time learning about the shortcuts in apps you use regularly. They’re powerful stuff and can make a HUUUGE difference to your workflow.
If you’re hungry for more and want to continue improving your workflow, grab Wes’ Sublime Text Book + Videos — use the code DEVTOOLS for $11 off. You can also check-out the first episode of Totally Tooling Tips for a look at Sublime Text plugins.
Heartz ❤
Addy Osmani and Wes Bos
Engineer at Google working with the Chrome & Polymer teams • Creator of TodoMVC, @Yeoman, Material Design Lite, Web Starter Kit• Passionate about web tooling
Engineering and technology articles for developers, written and curated by Googlers. The views expressed are those of the authors and don’t necessarily reflect those of Google.

It’s the break-up that nobody talks about.
The one that tears you apart in ways your high school boyfriends and hazy nights with strangers at the bar never really prepared you for.
The hardest goodbye.
Your college boyfriend might have promised you forever and always, but deep down, you knew that he never really meant it — and even if he did, it was only because he was just as naive as you were. There was always a hint of doubt in the back of your mind.
But you’ve never, ever looked into your best friend’s eyes and thought “Maybe one day, we’ll never speak again.”
You’re eight years old and bruised from falling off your bike, face-first onto solid concrete, bloody knees and scraped elbows, but she’s next to you, holding your hand.
You’re fifteen and you’ve locked yourself in the school bathroom, tears streaming down your face from your very first heartbreak, but she’s handing you tissues under the door, insisting that you skip sixth period together for a much needed ice cream break.
You’re eighteen and it’s your third night on campus, and you’re huddled together on the bottom bunk watching a rerun of Friends, and you tell her about how scared and lost and excited you are for the next four years, and she whispers back — me too.
You’re twenty-one and thirteen shots in, wondering if this is really how you should’ve celebrated your birthday, but she’s right behind you, holding back your hair as you regurgitate a night of regrets into the graffiti-ed stalls of the local dive.
You’re twenty-three and waving goodbye from the train platform, as she stares out the window and your eyes meet — and you’re both off to cities on opposite coasts, knowing that the miles and the times zones that separate you will inevitably tear you apart.
Then before you know it, you’re twenty-five and so caught up, lost in your busy schedule of nine-to-five meetings, soul cycling, and a disastrous string of first dates. You’re checking your phone between errands when you see a text from a number you haven’t dialed in years, saying — “Hey, I’m in town, let’s catch up over coffee?”
So you’re sitting across the table and staring at the girl who first met your gaze across the brightly-decorated first grade classroom, who walked over to your desk and declared, “Let’s be best friends.”
She looks up from the murky brown swirl of half and half dissolving in the bitter cup of watered-down espresso. It’s the same blue eyes and freckled smile you’ve always known—and she laughs quietly as she tells you about this guy she’s seeing, and this project she’s working on, and this juice cleanse that she’s planning to try before her trip to Cabo — but it’s all a flutter of small talk and meaningless words.
You smile politely and look away.
The drifting dust sparkles in the dim cafe light, and the skies outside are a musty shade of grey.
All you can think about is skinned knees, mint chocolate chip ice cream, Ross and Rachel, birthday shots, graduation smiles, and that feeling of losing each other forever.
Everything is almost exactly the same as it once was.
But the coffee tastes burnt, and the afternoon fades, and you’re nothing more than strangers once again.
Avid lover of green tea, old films, classic novels, and the 1950s. Always trying to get ahead of light. I stand for #feminism and #womenintech.
Sharing our ideas and experiences

I visited Google a few weeks ago and, after almost getting arrested, my mind was blown.
First, Claudia wandered into the garage where they were actually making or fixing the driverless cars. When they finally realized she was wandering around, security had to escort her out.
We got scared and we thought we were going to get in trouble or thrown out.
Then we met with a friend high up at Google and learned some of the things Google was working on.
Nothing was related to search. Everything was related to curing cancer (a bracelet that can make all the cancer cells in your body move towards the bracelet), automating everything (cars just one of those things), Wi-Fi everywhere (Project Loon) and solving other “billion person problems”.
A problem wasn’t considered worthy unless it could solve a problem for a billion people.
So now Alphabet is aligning itself towards this strategy: a holding company that owns and invests in other companies that can solve billion person problems.
It’s not divided up by money. It’s divided up by mission.
I want to do this in my personal life also.
Just analyzing Larry Page’s quotes from the past ten years is a guidebook for “billion person success” and for personal success.
Here are some of his quotes (in bold):
“If you’re changing the world, you’re working on important things. You’re excited to get up in the morning.”
To have well-being in life you need three things: A) a feeling of competence or growth. B) good emotional relationships. C) freedom of choice.
Being able to wake up excited in the morning is an outcome of well-being.
Feeling like every day you are working on a billion-person problem will give you those three aspects of well-being.
At the very least, when I wake up I try to remember to ask: Who can I help today?
Because I’m a superhero and this is my secret identity.
“Especially in technology, we need revolutionary change, not incremental change.”
Too often we get stuck in “good enough”. If you build a business that supports your family and maybe provides for retirement then that is “good enough”.
If you write a book that sells 1000 copies then that is “good enough.”
You ever wonder why planes have gotten slower since 1965? The Dreamliner 787 is actually slower than the 747.
That’s ok. It’s good enough to get people across the world and save on fuel costs.
It’s only the people who push past the “good enough syndrome” that we hear about: Elon Musk building a space ship. Larry Page indexing all knowledge. Elizabeth Holmes potentially diagnosing all diseases with a pin prick.
Isaac Asimov wrote classic science fiction like “The Foundation Series” but it wasn’t good enough for him. He ended up writing 500 more books, writing more books than anyone in history.
Larry Page keeps pushing so that every day he wakes up knowing he’s going to go past “good enough” that day.
What does your “good enough” day look like. What’s one thing that moves you past that?
“My job as a leader is to make sure everybody in the company has great opportunities, and that they feel they’re having a meaningful impact and are contributing to the good of society.”
Whenever I’ve managed companies and have had the small opportunity to be a leader I’ve judged my success on only one thing:
Does the employee at night go home and call his or her parents and say, “guess what I did today!”
I’m not sure this always worked. But I do think Larry Page lifts all his employees to try to be better versions of themselves, to try to surpass him, to try and change the world.
If each employee can say, “who did I help today” and have an answer, then that is a good leader.
Empowering others, empowers you.
“Lots of companies don’t succeed over time. What do they fundamentally do wrong? They usually miss the future.”
The stock market is near all time highs. And yet every company in the original Dow Jones market index (except for GE) has gone out of business.
Even US Steel, which built every building in the country for an entire century, has gone bankrupt.
Never let the practical get in the way of the possible.
It’s practical to focus on what you can do right now.
But give yourself time in your life to wonder what is possible and to make even the slightest moves in that direction.
We’re at maybe 1% of what is possible. Despite the faster change, we’re still moving slow relative to the opportunities we have. I think a lot of that is because of the negativity… Every story I read is Google vs someone else. That’s boring. We should be focusing on building the things that don’t exist.
Sometimes I want to give up on whatever I’m working on. I’m not working on major billion person problems.
And sometimes I think I write too much about the same thing. Every day I try to think, “What new thing can I write today” and I actually get depressed when I can’t think of something totally new.
But I am working on things that I think can help people. And if you are out side of people’s comfort zones, if you are breaking the normal rules of society, people will try to pull you down.
Larry Page didn’t want to be defined by Google for his entire life. He wants to be defined by what he hasn’t yet done. What he might even be afraid to do.
I wonder what my life would be like if I started doing all the things I was afraid to do. If I started defining my life by all the things I have yet to do.
“Many leaders of big organizations, I think, don’t believe that change is possible. But if you look at history, things do change, and if your business is static, you’re likely to have issues.”
Guess which company had the original patent that ultimately Larry Page derived his own patent (that created google) from?
Go ahead. Think a second. Guess.
An employee of this company created the patent and tried to get them to use it to catalog information on the web.
They refused.
So Robin Li, an employee of The Wall Street Journal, quit the newspaper of capitalism (who owned his patent), moved to China (a communist country), and created Baidu.
And Larry Page modified the patent, filed his own, and created Google.
And the Wall Street Journal got swallowed up by Rupert Murdoch and is dying a slow death.
“I think as technologists we should have some safe places where we can try out new things and figure out the effect on society.”
A friend of mine is writing a novel but is afraid to publish it. “Maybe it will be bad,” he told me.
Fortunately we live in a world where experimentation is easy. You can make a 30 page novel, publish it on Amazon for nothing, use an assumed name, and test to see if people like it.
Heck, I’ve done it. And it was fun.
Mac Lethal is a rapper who has gotten over 200 million views on his YouTube videos. Even Ellen had him on her show to demonstrate his skills.
I asked him, “do you get nervous if one of your videos gets less views than others?”
He told me valuable advice: “Nobody remembers your bad stuff. They only remember your good stuff.”
I live by that.
“If we were motivated by money, we would have sold the company a long time ago and ended up on a beach.”
Larry Page and Sergey Brin wanted to be academics. When they first patented Google, they tried to sell to Yahoo for $1 million (ONE MILLION DOLLARS).
When Yahoo laughed them out the door, they tried to sell to Excite for $750,000.
Excite laughed them out the door. Now an ex-employee of Google is the CEO of Yahoo. And the founder of Excite works at Google. Google dominates.
Money is a side effect of trying to help others. Trying to solve problems. Trying to move beyond the “good enough”.
So many people ask: “how do I get traffic?” That’s the wrong question.
If you ask every day, “How did I help people today?” then you will have more traffic and money than you could have imagined.
“Invention is not enough. Tesla invented the electric power we use, but he struggled to get it out to people. You have to combine both things: invention and innovation focus, plus the company that can commercialize things and get them to people.”
Everyone quotes the iconic story of Thomas Edison “failing” 10,000 times to get the electric lightbulb working.
I put failing in quotes because he was doing what any scientist does. He does many experiments until one works.
But what he did that was truly remarkable was convince New York City a few weeks later to light up their downtown using his lights.
The first time ever a city was lit up at night with electricity.
That’s innovation. That’s how the entire world got lit up.
“If you say you want to automate cars and save people’s lives, the skills you need for that aren’t taught in any particular discipline. I know — I was interested in working on automating cars when I was a Ph.D. student in 1995.”
Too often we get labeled by our degree and our job titles. Larry Page and Elon Musk were computer science majors. Now they build cars and space ships.
David Chang was a competitive golfer as a kid, majored in religious studies in college, and then had random gopher jobs in his 20s.
The gopher jobs all happened to be in restaurants so he became familiar with how the business was run.
Then he started probably the most popular restaurant in NYC, momofoku. A dozen or so restaurants later, he is one of the most successful restauranteurs in history.
Peter Thiel worked as a lawyer in one of the top law firms in NY. When he quit in order to become an entrepreneur, he told me that many of his colleagues came up to him and said, “I can’t believe you are escaping”.
Escaping the labels and titles and hopes that everyone else has for us is one of the first steps in Choosing Ourselves for the success we are meant to have.
We define our lives from our imagination and the things we create with our hands.
“It really matters whether people are working on generating clean energy or improving transportation or making the Internet work better and all those things. And small groups of people can have a really huge impact.”
What I love about this quote is that he combines big problems with small groups.
A small group of people created Google. Not Procter & Gamble. Or AT&T.
Even at Apple, when Steve Jobs wanted to create the Macintosh, he moved his small group to a separate building so they wouldn’t get bogged down in the big corporate bureaucracy that Apple was becoming.
Ultimately, they fired him for being too far from the corporate message.
Years later, when Apple was failing, they brought him back. What did he do? He cut most of the products and put people into small groups to solve big problems.
Before his death he revolutionized the movie industry, the computer industry, the music industry, TVs, and now even watches (watch sales have plummeted after the release of the Apple Watch).
All of this from a guy who finished one semester of studying calligraphy in college before dropping out.
Studying the history of Apple is like studying a microcosm of the history of how to create big ideas. Larry Page is recreating this with his new corporate structure.
“We don’t have as many managers as we should, but we would rather have too few than too many.”
The 20th century was the century of middle-class corporatism. It even became a “law” called “The Peter Principle” — everyone rises to their level of incompetence.
One of the problems society is having now is that the entire middle layer of management is being demoted, outsourced, replaced by technology, and fired.
This is not a bad or a good thing (although it’s scary). But it’s a return to the role of masters and apprentices without bureaucracy and paperwork in the middle.
It’s how things get done. When ideas go from the head into action with few barriers in the middle.
To be a successful employee, you have to align your interests with those of the company, come up with ideas that further help the customers, and have the mandate to act on those ideas, whether they work or not.
That’s why the employee who wrote much of the code inside the Google search engine, Craig Silverstein, is now a billionaire.
Where is he now? He’s an employee at online education company, The Khan Academy.
“If you ask an economist what’s driven economic growth, it’s been major advances in things that mattered — the mechanization of farming, mass manufacturing, things like that. The problem is, our society is not organized around doing that.”
Google is now making advances in driverless cars, delivery drones, and other methods of automation.
Everyone gets worried that this will cost jobs. But just look at history. Cars didn’t ruin the horse industry. Everyone simply adjusted.
TV didn’t replace books. Everything adjusted. The VCR didn’t shut down movies.
The Internet didn’t replace face to face communication (well, the jury is still out).
“What is the one sentence summary of how you change the world? Always work hard on something uncomfortably exciting!”
Not everyone wants to create a driverless car. Or clean energy. Or solve a billion person problem.
But I have a list of things that are uncomfortably exciting to me.
They are small, stupid things. Like I’d like to write a novel. Or perform standup comedy. Or maybe start another business based on my ideas for helping people.
Every day I wake up a tiny bit afraid. But I also try to push myself a little closer in those directions. I know then that’s how I learn and grow.
Sometimes I push forward. Sometimes I don’t. I want to get more comfortable with being uncomfortable.
“I do think there is an important artistic component in what we do. As a technology company I’ve tried to really stress that.”
Nobody knows what the definition of Art is.
How about: something that doesn’t exist except in the imagination, that you then bring out into the real world that has some mix of entertainment, enlightenment, and betterment.
I don’t know. Something like that.
Certainly the iPad is a work of art. And the iPad has created works of art. And when I first saw a driverless car I thought, “that’s beautiful”.
I’m going to try and put my fingerprint on something today. And maybe it will be art.
“The idea that everyone should slavishly work so they do something inefficiently so they keep their job — that just doesn’t make any sense to me. That can’t be the right answer.”
We’ve been hypnotized into thinking that the “normal life” is a “working life”.
If you don’t “go to work” then you must be sick or on the tiny bit of vacation allotted to you each year.
What if everything you did you can inject a little bit of leisure, a little bit of fun into it.
I have fun writing, except when I think I have to meet a deadline (work). I have fun making a business that people actually use except when I think about money too much (work).
When you are at the crossroads and your heart loves one path and doesn’t love the other, forget about which path has the money and the work, take the path you love.
“We want to build technology that everybody loves using, and that affects everyone. We want to create beautiful, intuitive services and technologies that are so incredibly useful that people use them twice a day. Like they use a toothbrush. There aren’t that many things people use twice a day.”
What a great idea for a list of the day!
What are ten things that can be invented that people would use twice a day?
“You need to invent things and you need to get them to people. You need to commercialize those inventions. Obviously, the best way we’ve come up with doing that is through companies.”
I was speaking to Naveen Jain, who made his billions on an early search engine, InfoSpace.
He just started a company to mine rare earth minerals on the Moon.
But his real goal is extra-planetary colonization.
Somehow we got around to the question of why have a company in the middle of that. He has billions. He can just go straight for the colonization part.
He said, “Every idea has to be sustainable. Profitability is proof that an idea is sustainable.”
“You may think using Google’s great, but I still think it’s terrible.”
K. Anders Ericsson made famous the “10,000 hour rule” popularized later by Malcom Gladwell.
The rule is: if you practice WITH INTENT for 10,000 hours then you will be world-class.
He then wondered why typists would often reach a certain speed level and then never improve no matter how many hours.
After doing research, its because they forgot the “With intent” part. They were satisfied with “good enough”.
You have to constantly come up with new metrics to measure yourself, to compete against yourself, to better the last plateau you reached.
Google is great. But it can be better. Having this mindset always forces you to push beyond the comfort zone.
Once they changed the way typists viewed their skills (by recreating the feeling of “beginner’s mind”) the typists continued to get faster.
“We have a mantra: don’t be evil, which is to do the best things we know how for our users, for our customers, for everyone. So I think if we were known for that, it would be a wonderful thing.”
Many people argue whether or not Google has succeeded at this. That’s not the point.
The point is: Values before Money.
A business is a group of people with a goal to solve a problem. Values might be: we want to solve a problem, we want the customer to be happy, we want employees to feel like they have upward mobility, etc.
Once you lose your values, you’ll lost the money as well. This why family-run businesses often die by the third generation (“Shirt sleeves to shirt sleeves in three generations).
The values of the founder got diluted through his descendants until the company failed.
I spoke to Dick Yuengling about this (CEO of the largest independent beer maker and a fifth generation business).
His family found an interesting way to solve the problem. The business is not inherited. Each generation has to BUY the business from the generation before it.
To do that, each generation needs its own values, its new way of doing things that keeps the brand fresh and ongoing.
“I think it is often easier to make progress on mega-ambitious dreams. Since no one else is crazy enough to do it, you have little competition. In fact, there are so few people this crazy that I feel like I know them all by first name.”
Our parents have our best interests at heart and tell us how to be good adults.
Our schools have our best interests.
Our friends, colleagues, sometimes our bosses, sometimes government, think they have our best interests.
But it’s only when everyone thinks you are crazy that you know you are going to create something that surprises everyone and really makes your own unique handprint on the world.
And because you went out of the comfort zone, you’re only competing against the few other people as crazy as you are.
“You know what it’s like to wake up in the middle of the night with a vivid dream? And you know that if you don’t have a pencil and pad by the bed, it will be completely gone by the next morning. Sometimes it’s important to wake up and stop dreaming. When a really great dream shows up, grab it.”
For every article I’ve ever written, there’s at least ten more I left behind in the middle of the night thinking I would remember in the morning.
I have to beat myself in the head. I . Will. Not. Remember….Must. Write. Down.
It’s hard to wake up. And that’s the only thing worth remembering. It’s hard to wake up.
“I have always believed that technology should do the hard work — discovery, organization, communication — so users can do what makes them happiest: living and loving, not messing with annoying computers! That means making our products work together seamlessly.”
This is a deep question — who are you? If you have a mechanical hand, is that “you”?
Conversely, if you lose a hand, did you lose a part of you. Are you no longer a complete person? The complete you?
If an implant is put into your brain to access Google, does that effect who you view your self to be?
When books were invented, memory suffered. We no longer had to remember as much, because we can look things up.
Does that make our brains less human?
I bet memory has suffered with the rise of Google. Does this mean our consciousness has suffered?
When we created fire, we outsourced part of our digestion to this new invention. Did this make our stomachs less human?
With technology taking care of the basic tasks of our brain and body, it allows us to achieve things we couldn’t previously dream possible.
It allows us to learn and explore and to create past the current comfort zone. It allows us to find the happiness, freedom, and well-being we deserve.
“Over time, our emerging high-usage products will likely generate significant new revenue streams for Google as well as for our partners, just as search does today.“
This is it. This is why Larry Page has re-oriented Google into Alphabet.
Don’t waste your most productive energies solving a problem that now only has incremental improvements.
Re-focus the best energies on solving harder and harder problems.
Always keeping the value of “how can I help a billion people” will keep Google from becoming a Borders bookstore (which went out of business after outsourcing all of their sales to Amazon).
How does this apply to the personal?
Instead of being a cog in the machine for some corporation, come up with ways to automate greater abundance.
Always understand that coming up with multiple ways to help people is ultimately the way to create the biggest impact.
Impact then creates health, friendship, competence, abundance, and freedom.
Oh my god, this answer is too long. And believe it or not, I cut it in half.
If I can just wake up every day and remind myself of these quotes by Larry Page I know I will have a better life.
But this is also why he created Alphabet and put Google underneath it.
To save the world. To save me.
More From James
Latest Podcast: Ep 125: Rich Roll & Julie Piatt — Quit The NonsenseIs it possible to transform your life on the eve of your 40th birthday, and experience meaning, vitality, and purpose like you’ve never before imagined?
Latest Ask Altucher: Ep 332: Ask MollieJames delves into the mind of his 13-year-old daughter Mollie today.
Recommended Article: I Want To Be Like Google When I Grow UpDear Google, I sort of want to have sex with you. Or I want you to be my father. Or my best friend. I don’t know, I feel so nervous writing this letter.
For some reason, I've turned myself inside out and all my guts have spilled onto my blog. One day I'll run out of stuff but not yet.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Last week I was on my way to visit Medium’s headquarters in San Francisco to discuss a project that I’m working on, mainly focused around police brutality. Funnily enough (or not so), I ended up being over an hour late, because this happened.
I recorded the incident August 4th 2015 during the lunch hour. It involves a Black man who was taken down by police in the mid-Market area of San Francisco, between 7th and 8th streets. Though the takedown didn’t occur directly outside of the Twitter building on 9th street, I began to see outlines of the incident unfold from there; a limping Black figure, wearing black, increasingly cornered by a wall of blue. By the time I had crossed 8th street, I was pulling out my phone as fast as I could.
Witnesses said there had been a call about somebody waving sticks around. No one, at least no one that I stayed long enough after the filming, could say for sure where the call came from. One woman said that she heard someone say that one of the deli managers called. By the time I arrived where Joe Bland was (as we’ll call him), several officers had arrived on the scene, and forced this man to the ground, which is where this footage begins. And they held him down, much of the time half-naked, for at least half an hour on one of San Francisco’s busiest streets.
The sticks? They were his crutches. You can hear people in the background around say so much. From my vantage point on the shore of 8th street, I could see the man reluctantly hand over his crutches. The man, it turned out, only had one leg; the other was a prosthetic. It is often twisted and backwards in the video. And this was the crux of the heightened tension between the police and Joe Bland; they wanted his crutches and he did not want to give them away. “What are you doing this for?” he asked so many times. “These are my crutches. I use these to walk.” He repeats this throughout the footage. An officer can be seen at the 5 second time-mark stomping on the man’s prosthetic leg. In further efforts to subdue a man already on the ground with four people on top of him, they stood on his leg, held it, and twisted it around even after they had cuffed him and pinned him to the piss-stained concrete.
Even when restrained and clearly unable to walk, several officers continued to hold him down to the ground.
This version of the video is 11 minutes long (the incident actually went on way longer and I have roughly 30 minutes of footage) but here’s a brief summary of what you can see.
5 seconds in, you can see a cop literally stomp this man’s real leg and prosthetic leg.
At 10 seconds, the man-handling of his head begins.
At 22 seconds the man says, “What the fuck is you doing this to me?”
Around 1:35, the “Blue Wall” begins to form to block my filming.
Around 3:11, you can see that the man is partially nude, his ass is exposed. You can also hear me responding to the things that officers are saying to me, even if you can’t really hear them. Among the things they said: “You don’t live here,” “What do you do?” and “Oh, you’re a journalist, right, for who?”
Around 3:55, you can’t hear him, but the man on the ground says, “they’re going to shoot me” and then you can clearly hear someone behind me say, “They ain’t gonna shoot you man, that’s why we have these cameras out here.”
4:00 the wall begins to deepen and you can also see his nude backside completely exposed.
Around 6:00 he begins saying how much it hurts — “this shit hurts” and at 6:44, he says, “ That shit hurts…I have a fucking sore, an infection, on my leg.”
Around 7:00 the man begins asking, “What the fuck is wrong with you, is this what you do? [inaudible? something “treat me”?] Is this respectable? When I say ‘no’, is this what you do to me?”
At 7:25 he’s explaining to them, as he has before — and other people in the background have also corroborated — that he was walking with the sticks that were confiscated from him.
It goes on.
This isn’t a video of a man getting killed. Some might watch this and think in that general, indemnifying way, that this video is an exceptional case of an isolated case of poor policing. I’d have to disagree — and not respectfully — with you.
These incidents are so quotidian, so mundane, that they do not merit a mention in even passing on the local news. Which is to say, this is everyday harassment. Which is to say, that we’ve normalized and habitualized the kind of policing in San Francisco and the rest of America that brutalizes the most vulnerable people, which strips them of their human dignity, the agency to their bodies — to walk with crutches when physically disabled, to have this body unviolated — when in actuality, they are whom the police are especially supposed to be protecting.
In the book Between The World and Me, Ta-Nehisi Coates writes, “In America, it is traditional to destroy the Black body — it is heritage.” This is a literal and physical example of what he means by this. To say that this footage is exceptional or special is to be blind to Eric Garner’s death tape, to Walter Scott’s murder on video, it is to agree that John Crawford did not have the right to walk around Walmart with a toy gun in an open carry state. Yes, it’s racial profiling. Yes, it’s racism. Yes, it’s inequality. This is an American heritage.
But before you think that this is not San Francisco’s heritage, it would be better to first ask the Joe Blands, those that you may step over on any given day because you are busy, the BART is packed and they smell violently, what they think San Francisco’s heritage is, as it pertains to the police. Before you think that this is not San Francisco’s heritage, it is better to wonder why Black people, 7% of San Francisco’s population, are 7 times more likely to be arrested than White people. If you must believe that this video and the flood of others like it are exceptional instances of isolated brutality, then let us too believe that the stomping of vulnerable Black bodies and Black (prosthetic) limbs with pulverizing intent are what one means when they say, American exceptionalism.
I don’t know who Joe Bland is. I and others tried to get his name, but we could not make it out very well. Long after my meeting at Medium, watching the video by frames and discussing this with Bobbie Johnson about what to do next (who did a tremendous job in helping this come together and edit this), I was still at a loss for exactly what he’d done. But I do know that the police didn’t even put him under arrest: SFFD medics strapped him, against his will, to a stretcher and took him to hospital, for no apparent reason. I do know that he was humiliated, crying and deeply upset, but that and being physically handicapped are not enough reasons to be sent to the hospital. I do know that 14 officers to take down a presumably homeless man with one leg seems like a waste of resources and unreasonable.
The San Francisco Police Department is not new to controversy or to this American heritage. This year it’s been embroiled in a racist texting scandal, with officers caught sending messages calling African-Americans “monkeys” and encouraging the killing of “half breeds.” Earlier this year several officers and former officers were sentenced to jail for drug dealing, and pocketing money found during drug raids — some of which were unconstitutional. Just last week it came to light that the department has requested a mine-resistant armored vehicle, and recently the department was also subject to an investigation into faulty crime lab evidence —with as many as 1,400 criminal cases in the spotlight. A 2014 KQED review of police-involved shootings between 2005 and 2013 found that 58% of the people killed by the San Francisco Police Department were mentally ill. In an interview with the City Democratic Club in 2014, San Francisco’s chief of police, Greg Suhr, reported that his men are becoming “more and more charming.”
Speaking of which, Greg Suhr earns $320,000 per year — more than any other police chief in America. He also makes more than the mayor of San Francisco and the governor of California — $285,000 and $174,000 respectively.
This happened in the heart of one of America’s most affluent cities, literally outside the headquarters of Twitter. One block away are the headquarters of Uber, which is on pace to be the fastest-growing company in history. There are dozens of technology companies and buzzy internet media businesses along this stretch of Market Street, worth many, many billions of dollars. And not to my knowledge, did any of their employees or representatives come out to look at what the police were doing. And if they did, none of them have since publicly wondered what and how to use the powers of innovation, access and capital to change the narrative of police brutality in San Francisco and America. Perhaps they did not know that Joe Bland had been brutalized. Perhaps they were looking from their lofts and skyscrapers, on their way to the coffee machines or the in-house catered lunch and did see, but they too have normalized this mundane, quotidian and brutal American heritage. Whatever the internal struggles were, no one came.
And what could they do? If you’re sitting in your office in the Tenderloin, or mid-Market, or downtown San Francisco, what can you really do?
You are not powerless. You are rich and empowered, despite how you feel after paying rent and the IRS. You have a voice, a vote, a say in how San Francisco polices itself, in how it treats people. Greg Suhr and his officers work for you, not the other way around. As such, the police act on the democratic will of the people and if the current policing does not fit your will, you can change that.
So here are three things you can do.
So. The Haiti-ians need to come to America.
The story you’ve been missing.
By JON WESTENBERG
You could make something right now. If you wanted to stop reading, grab a sheet of butcher’s paper and brainstorm ideas, you could probably come up with half a dozen ideas for apps, books or products. Ideas aren’t the hard part, after all — just ask Tom Haverford.
You could build a Wordpress site and start harassing your friends to test the concept. You could start writing op-ed pieces on Medium and put “Founder” or “Author” in your Twitter bio within 48 hours. You could throw up a landing page, post the first chapter of a book and start pushing it on Product Hunt.
Where things get tough is when you’re trying to make something that people genuinely give a shit about. You don’t want your dream to die in the chamber, because nobody read it, watched it, used it or listened to it. The deafening silence surrounding your work can crush your soul.

If you want to make something that people really care about, that they actually give a hot shit about, you have to care about it yourself. Because if you don’t, then try as you might, it’ll come out in the final product.
The reason for this?
The only way you’ll be able to consistently work, when you don’t want to work, consistently try when you don’t want to try, is by deeply and honestly caring about your work.

The best writing advice I have ever heard was to write specifically for someone I know. It’s a genius idea. Every time I go to create something, or build something I think about who I know that would benefit from what I’m doing.
If you have something that you care enough about to make, you have to ask the next question — who are you making it for? What information do they need? What turn of phrase would stop them in their tracks? What is their single pain point that the product could solve, or their secret story that your novel would be able to touch and cultivate into a real emotional response?


You need to ask yourself whether you have the courage, the strength, the motivation and the passion to make what you want to make. And I mean really ask yourself, because when you first come up with an idea you can get so caught up in it that you can’t see anything else.
When that feeling starts to die down, or you get used to it, you can realise that you don’t have the real raw power to be able to finish and follow through. That’s not a bad thing; there is nothing wrong with recognising that a project isn’t right for you. Maybe there’s another project that is.
It’s not enough just to care about what you’re making — it has to feel right.

Have you ever watched one of those reality TV singing competitions? You’ve probably seen a hundred young people, eyes shining, clutching microphones and talking about their dreams. They’ll explain that ever since they were kids, they wanted to be singers.
They hardly ever say they wanted to sing. When it comes down to it, half the time it’s because actually singing isn’t the end goal. They want the trappings and lifestyle and the breaks of being a singer.
The same is true for anything you could make. Do you want to make X, or do you want to be the person who made X? Because if you don’t care about the act of making something, and if you don’t want to get out there every day and try to make something, you might as well quit.

If you want to write a book that can break someone’s heart — work hard.
If you want to start a business that changes the world — work hard.
If you want to draw a comic book that expresses everything you are, and dream about — work hard.


Jon Westenberg is a writer originally from Adelaide, South Australia. He holds a Masters in Communications from the University of Technology and lives in Sydney.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

Last Saturday, I read the 6,000-word New York Times piece, “Inside Amazon,” in the car on my way to the beach. I sat quietly in the front seat, glued to my phone while my husband flapped his hand gesturing for help with Google maps. My two-year-old danced to the sounds of Raffi in the back. When we got to the beach, we set up our spot, complete with dinosaur sand toys. My husband and daughter made a beeline for the water. I put on my Coolibar SPF 50 jacket to cover my skin from the sun. Then I sat down in my chair and wept.
Until July of 2014, I worked for Amazon. As a relatively successful young book editor, I’d been hired by the company in 2011 to help launch its New York City-based book publishing outpost created to commission original content by name writers. The media landscape was continuing to evolve; everyone was in everyone else’s lane. It was a big opportunity, one many people inside the publishing industry told me privately I would be crazy not to take. I was drawn to Amazon’s spirit of innovation, its agility, and its culture of excellence. I was about to start Columbia’s Executive MBA program when the offer came in. Why not, as the saying goes, “earn to learn,” I thought. I took the job.
I was dazzled by the people I met in different pockets of the company those first few months. They were all smart. They were all lightning-fast. And, I quickly noted, when it came to leadership positions, they were almost all men. “So, who’s our Sheryl Sandberg?” I asked a VP. He cited General Counsel Michelle Wilson, the sole woman on Jeff Bezos’s executive team. The next year, in 2012, Wilson left the company to take maternity leave. She never returned.
In 2013, during my second year at Amazon, I had a baby of my own. Six weeks after my daughter was born, I was diagnosed with cancer. I was given detailed instructions by my oncologist’s staff on how to “pump and dump” my breast milk for 24 hours to prevent my daughter from ingesting radioactive matter. There I was, soothing my infant, unsure of whether or not I would be around to see her first birthday.
After my surgery, while I was still on maternity leave, I received a form letter saying that the health insurance provided by my employer had been terminated. Dozens of panicked emails and phone calls later, the whole thing was, I was told, a glitch in the system. After a week of back and forth, I was offered COBRA coverage, by which point I had already switched to my husband’s insurance, where I remained for the duration of my care. I chalked it up to a horrendous administrative error but remain disappointed that a company of Amazon’s size didn’t have better mechanisms in place to prevent something like that from happening during an employee’s maternity leave.
After a five-month leave, I was nervous and excited to return to work, and I showed up that first day back with a big smile and a phone full of baby pictures to share. I figured I’d catch up with folks and get a high-level update on how the business was doing, since the strategy had evolved from the time I was hired. Here’s what happened instead: I was taken to lunch by a woman I barely knew. Over Cobb salad she calmly explained that all but one of my direct reports — the people I had hired — were now reporting to her. In the months that followed, I was placed on a dubious performance improvement plan, or PIP, a signal at Amazon that your employment is at risk. Not long after that I resigned.
The truth is, I’ve moved on. I’m healthy. I have a great job doing work I love. There’s no question Amazon is an incredible company. I met some of the strongest, most brilliant women of my career there. Unfortunately, many of those women have left. And the voices commenting on the New York Times piece so far have been predominantly male leaders of male-dominated teams.
Jeff: You asked for direct feedback. Women power your retail engine. They buy diapers. They buy books. They buy socks for their husbands on Prime. On behalf of all the people who want to speak up but can’t: Please, make Amazon a more hospitable place for women and parents. Reevaluate your parental leave policies. You can’t claim to be a data-driven company and not release more specific numbers on how many women and people of color apply, get hired and promoted, and stay on as employees. In the absence of meaningful public data — especially retention data — all we have are stories. This is mine.
Julia Cheiffetz is an Executive Editor at HarperCollins Publishers. She is on the Board of the Lower Eastside Girls Club.
The Fuckboy, in his current form, aims for the night, aims for the break, goals to ghost. The Softboy strings you along under loftier auspices. He is Nice yet Complicated; this isn’t just a hookup. It’s a series of such.
The Softboy did not talk to you at the party, but he’s adding you on Facebook while you’re on the train home. Soon, he wants to know if you’d “like to get drinks.”
“Or something.”
He discusses his ex-girlfriend within the first thirty minutes of the date. He talks about her in a sad, wistful way rather than a snarky, resentful way. The older Softboy will say, “Oh well, it’s in the past.” The younger Softboy will say, “So it goes.”
The Softboy may be named Tom. Or Phillip.
The Softboy wears a plain t-shirt or sweater and orders cheap beer backed with bottom-shelf whiskey. He is neither Bro nor Nerd. He is sensitive yet amusingly crass. He doesn’t want you to know he has feelings. He wants you to know that he has feelings and he is completely okay with that.
The Fuckboy is perplexed that you were upset when he forgot to text you for three days then sent “what are you up to” at last call. The Softboy knows this behavior is selfish and cruel, though his desire to get laid can trump this. He feels shame. He does it again.
He wants to know if you’re mad at him. He already knows.
The Softboy doesn’t want to talk to you about The Wire. He concedes that it is “objectively good television” yet “ultimately problematic” and “undeserving of its lionization.” Obviously, he is an Ally.
He has some art to show you.
The Softboy does not necessarily have a soft body. In fact he is often wiry and angular.
However: the heavier the Softboy, the thicker the beard.
He is emotionally intelligent but does nothing with this knowledge. He is artistic. He is aware. He is still a dick.
The Softboy sends you songs via Gchat while you’re at work.
He hasn’t texted you back for a reason; he was not blowing you off. He’s had a Weird Day. Or maybe he’s Trying To Figure Some Shit Out. Sometimes, he finds pride in declaring that he Just Needs A Night To Himself.
The Softboy is an Underdog. He has a hurricane sulk.
He resurfaces seconds before the final ember extinguishes.
The Softboy wields guilt like a floral knife.
Writer | California Son | alan-hanson.com

I’m a professional YouTube creator. Some people think that this is some kind of joke but I have 30 employees. All of them work in the online video industry, about half of them work directly on producing videos for our educational YouTube channels. We’re a small, profitable business.
Facebook is an interesting, emerging platform for us. Reaching an audience is valuable, even if there’s no way to turn that value into money. So I’m excited about the potential future of Facebook as a video platform.
But there are a few things that make me wary, not of their ability to grow my business, but of whether they give a shit about creators, which is actually pretty important to me. Let’s go through them one by one.
If I embed a YouTube video or Vine on Facebook, only a tiny fraction of my audience will actually see it. But if I post the same video natively on Facebook, suddenly it’s in everyone’s feed everywhere! This data is pretty easy to come by for us, and Facebook is happy to admit the strategy. A SciShow YouTube video embedded on Facebook will reach between 20,000 and 50,000 people and be viewed by hundreds of people. The same video uploaded natively will get a reach of between 60,000 and 150,000 and be “viewed” by tens of thousands (more on what those “views” actually mean later).
Sonja Foust of Duke University actually took the time to crunch some real numbers on this, and she was kind enough to allow me to share them with you:
So Facebook is pushing Facebook video. I guess that’s their prerogative (unless someone decides there’s an anti-trust argument to be made.) But as a creator, it seems like an abuse of their power.

In our analytics-obsessed world, it’s tempting to first ask how to measure whether something is a view, but if we take a step back and just ask what a “view” is, the answer becomes clearer. What is a view? It’s when someone watches the video. And Facebook counts views significantly before people could be said to be watching the video.
Facebook counts the “view” at the three second mark (whether or not the viewer has even turned on the sound) in the midst of a precipitous decline in retention. At that moment, 90% of people scrolling the page are still ‘watching’ this silent animated GIF. But by 30 seconds, when viewership actually could be claimed, only 20% are watching. 90% of people are being counted, but only 20% of people are actually “viewing” the video.
YouTube, on the other hand, counts views in a logical way…the view is counted at the point at which people seem to actually be engaging with the video and not just immediately clicking away. This is usually around 30 seconds, but of course is different for videos of different lengths.
This might seem a little like this is a victimless crime, but it fundamentally devalues the #1 metric of online video. The view is the thing that everyone talks about and it’s the thing creators sell to advertisers in order to make a living. Applying that word to something far less valuable is going to be extremely disruptive to creators. Ad agencies and brands are confused enough without Facebook muddying the waters by calling something a view when it is in no way a measure of viewership.
When Facebook says it has roughly the same number of views as YouTube, what they really mean is that they have roughly 1/5th of YouTube’s views, since they’re intentionally and blatantly over-counting to the detriment of everyone except them.

According to a recent report from Ogilvy and Tubular Labs, of the 1000 most popular Facebook videos of Q1 2015, 725 were stolen re-uploads. Just these 725 “freebooted” videos were responsible for around 17 BILLION views last quarter. This is not insignificant, it’s the vast majority of Facebook’s high volume traffic. And no wonder, when embedding a YouTube video on your company’s Facebook page is a sure way to see it die a sudden death, we shouldn’t be surprised when they rip it off YouTube and upload it natively. Facebook’s algorithms encourage this theft.
What is Facebook doing about it?
They’ll take the video down a couple days after you let them know. Y’know, once it’s received 99.9% of the views it will ever receive.
Creators have been yelling (apparently into a void) about this for over a year now. Fullscreen CEO George Strompolos shared his thoughts on Twitter last month:
And then he was joined by the Fine Brothers, who run one of the largest channels on YouTube
Destin Sandlin, who runs the “Smarter Every Day” channel released a video on the topic after a video of his was ripped and re-uploaded by a subsidiary of Bauer Media Group and received 17 million views on their Facebook page.
But most creators have responded, thus far, the same way as me. By shrugging our shoulders and saying “What am I gonna do about it…it’s Facebook, they’re massive.”
But that’s exactly what makes it so awful.
It’s no secret that YouTube was built, in part, on copyright infringement. Among the user generated content that drove traffic to YouTube in 2006 and 2007, there were plenty of Family Guy and Daily Show clips. But YouTube was a tiny start-up flying under the radar. As soon as it got big (and got bought) Google fixed this problem with “Content ID,” a system that analyzes every single video uploaded to YouTube and checks it against a massive database of known owned content.
It’s a little inexcusable that Facebook, a company with a market cap of $260 BILLION, launched their video platform with no system to protect independent rights holders. It wouldn’t be surprising if Facebook was working on a solution now which they can roll out conveniently after having made their initial claims at being the biggest, most important thing in video.
But even if they do have a system, it won’t function as well as Content ID. Content ID works so well largely because YouTube is good at monetizing content. So, instead of taking a video down, a copyright holder can claim the video and receive revenue from it. Content ID has claimed millions of videos and is responsible for over a billion dollars in revenue so copyright holders love it. But without a good system of monetization, Facebook can only remove videos, not send big checks to the owners of stolen content. For the copyright holder, interfacing with a profitless system is just a pain in the ass with no upside.
What to do? Well, the lack of searchability on Facebook makes it impossible for creators to discover when their content is being freebooted, so if you see suspect content, please reach out to the creator so they can take action. If you have any legal or technical solutions you think might work, please post those as responses to this. And above all, just know that this is an issue and share what you can with who you can. Facebook won’t hold itself accountable, but maybe they will if we make them.
Facebook is big enough that it shouldn’t need to resort to these tactics to build its video presence. It makes them look weak to be so excited about skyrocketing numbers if those numbers are based on cheating, lies, and theft.
Hank Green makes YouTube videos for a living on channels like SciShow, Crash Course, and Vlogbrothers. He also runs a merchandise company for internet creators (DFTBA Records), a conference for internet creators (VidCon), and his crowd-funding platform for internet creators (Subbable) was recently acquired by Patreon.
Internetainerpreneur
I think spatially, and so do you. Can you scratch your left ear without looking? Pick a booger out of your nose, without poking your brain? Remember where you left your keys? Can you type, without looking at your keyboard? Know which pocket your phone is in? Which way is up? Do you know where the bathroom is? Of course you do! We imagine multi-dimensional models in our minds, to help understand the complex world around us. We can also leverage this powerful way of thinking, to process more abstract information.
I believe the best software is an extension of the human brain. It lets us think naturally, and conforms to us, not the other way around. Translation of information should be the computer’s job, not ours. It’s what we built these digital slaves for. A great Spatial Interface meets our expectations of a physical model. Designed for human beings, it supports a mind, living in the dimensions of space and time. They are Interfaces that are sensible about where things lay. Like a well designed building, they’re easy to traverse through. One space flows into the other, without surprise.
To design a Spatial Interface, you need to think inside and outside the bounds of the screen. Think about the physicality of the objects in your interface. Where did they come from? Where will they go? How do they behave in respect to Kinetic influence? Do certain objects inherit physical properties of others? Where are you, relative to everything else?
These are hard questions to answer with words. Seems like a no-brainer, but I find it most effective to solve visual problems with pictures.
Diagrammatic Reasoning
When designing spatially, it helps to imagine an interface as a physical model, which can be manipulated, and travelled through. Rather than placing detached comps next to each other one-dimensionally, try thinking upper-dimensionally.
Here’s a breakdown of the Contextual Zooming paradigm that was key to creating Keezy Drummer.
You can visualize the relationships between dimensions as extrusions of lower dimensions. Each dimension creates a significantly more complex model to visualize.



We can design with time, by thinking about kinetic, Transitional Interfaces. Both Spatial & Temporal clues lead the eye around physical models.






Motion implies space. Movement re-enforces the physical characteristics of the spaces on and off the screen. Objects constrained using sensible, physical rules, help establish a clear model.


We’ve all seen this classic, list item deletion pattern. Swipe the cell, and it reveals a button behind it. Tap the icon, and the entire cell collapses.

What happens if we change the way the list item departs the screen?

If we cushion / ease the item exiting the screen, we suggest where it might stop. In this case, it stops a little short off screen. We might want to do this to imply a holding area, which could feed items back into the list. Maybe we could allow the user to swipe the viewport to the right hand side of the screen, revealing displaced list items.

If the item keeps accelerating, where does it end up? Out of reach? Are we banishing it into the void of outer space?

If the list item rotates and displaces along the x & y axis freely, does it come to rest off the grid? Is there gravity? Maybe it lands in a pile.



Z-translation implies depth.
The list item could flip over. It might fold in on itself like an accordion. Maybe it scrunches. The fill color could drain out of the cell like a liquid. I could go on with visual examples forever, but by now, I think you get the picture; one can encode quite a lot of meaning using motion and space.



Pretty conceptual, but Scorekeeper does a great job of creating focus. It isolates modes, rather than presenting the user with a bloated buffet of options to dig through. Complexity is hidden in secondary, and tertiary sub-interfaces. Each sub-interface is as simple as its parent.


Tinder famously employs a card paradigm. There’s an endless stack of cards which make use of z-depth. Toss a card from the stack to the right, for a babe you’re into, or throw them to the left to pass. Similarly, if you tap the heart or ‘x’ button, it automatically tosses the card to the respective side of screen, re-enforcing the function of space.
It’s a physical, kinetic model that’s familiar.


Secondary screens are placed along a horizontal continuum, which is reflected in the motion of the navigation, cascading to the content below. A great example of motion being leveraged to imply space.
I’m unsure if it’s intentional, but the interface for messaging your ‘matches’ happens to exist on the right hand side, within the same area you toss your Tinder crush card.



Tumblr’s model is simple. There’s a few contexts, connected with a tab bar. It’s easy to visualize if you imagine the interface from the perspective of a camera. A persistent toolbar follows us, as if attached to the camera we’re looking through. Though you don’t see explicit motion along the x-axis as we change contexts (as Tinder employs), there’s still a implicit feeling of space on either side of the columns.
None of this is groundbreaking.
What’s interesting is the use of the compose modal, triggered by touching the blue pencil icon. No matter where it’s touched, you are not transported to a new part of the interface, rather — you’re presented with a temporary offering, in a focused view. You have incredibly simple options: Either select a post type, or dismiss the menu. The view presents itself over the top of the content, as if it were a layer existing on a z-plane. Dismiss the view, and it returns to where it was summoned. Choose to make an action on it, you continue to move along the y-axis with the icons, implying a continuum. It’s like a conveyor belt on a production line.
My one gripe in Tumblr’s process, is that the metadata composer is presented with the insertion of a classic, master-detail view. If I were to push the interface further, I’d continue to present the next screen with y-axis motion, rather than introducing the extra x-dimension. This reduces the cognitive load required to imagine the spatial model.


A classic lightbox effect, but with a little more. Tap the photo, and it moves into the ‘foreground’. The background feed dims and recedes. Flick the photo away, and it returns back to its initial position, while the original container view zooms back into focus. It’s solid.



There’s a lot to learn, by deconstructing these expensive Frankensteins.

One of the most spatially confusing, while popular pieces of consumer software. To describe how Spotify’s interface makes use of space, would be to describe a rat’s nest of wires. I challenge you to effectively sketch it on a piece of paper.

A user of Spotify is exposed to obscure carousels, buried inside modals, stuffed inside list views, crammed into drawers, contained by drop-downs, tucked behind gestures. Each list item in the hamburger menu forces the user through a wild goose chase in order to perform a simple action. It’s like you have to play a choose your own adventure story to get anything done.

While it may seem baffling that a team of talented engineers & designers could produce such a monstrosity, it’s unsurprising when you take a look at the software development values of Spotify. A holistic approach to creating software is thrown out the window, in favor of ungrounded company memes.

…but to be fair, the rest of the competition in the music space doesn’t seem to get it either. Apple Music & Rdio’s interfaces are equally insufferable. There’s little, to no thought given to Space.

Praised for its use of spring physics, and wild animations, it seems remarkable on the surface. The Paper team made some cool tech, and even open sourced it. It’s fun to fling around. It ends there. Paper is a children’s interactive playbook for an iPad, rebranded and then crammed into a tiny iPhone. Ok, well it’s Push Pop Press shoehorned into Facebook.

There’s momentum scroll areas for days. Springs on springs on springs on springs. Cards that unfold like a shiny newspaper? You can pinch everything. The loudest hamburger menu in the world. Everything is simulated and moves for the sake of flair. It’s unnecessary kinetic toil. It’s fatiguing to traverse the amount of physical space described in the interface, let alone keep a model in the mind to remember where you are.
It’s a great example of going too far.

This one’s so obvious, I’m presenting it without any further comment.

How do we avoid the Rat’s Nest? We need to zoom out, and quite literally. Like I mentioned earlier, it helps immensely to think in terms of diagrammatic reasoning. Simple directions on the map result in a less chaotic journey through space.
Some tips:




I hope what I’ve penned down has encouraged you to think more Spatially. Go play some video games, and study the interfaces. Go outside. Observe the physicality of reality and your expectations of it. It’s in the DNA of the creations I’m inspired by, and the type of work I strive to produce.
I’ll be talking about this topic at Push Conference in Munich later this year. Feel free to email me: medium@pasquale.cool, or write to me on twitter @pasql
✌🏻

Special thanks:
Jake Lodwick, Eric Skogen, Mark Stultz, & Sebastiaan de With
Creative Director & Co-Founder of Keezy. http://pasquale.cool/
From the boys at Elepath Inc. http://elepath.com

Edit: At Facebook’s request I have again deactivated the *official* version of the extension. Furthermore, Facebook has deactivated location sharing from the desktop webpage so the extension will not work.
When I came to college Facebook Messenger became an integral part of my digital life. I quickly found that it was the easiest way to keep in touch with old high school friends, contact people I had just met, organize impromptu poker games with people I hardly knew, and everything in between. However, I didn't realize how much data about me Messenger was revealing to the people I chatted with until last week when I began tinkering with my message history.
As you may know, when you send a message from the Messenger app there is an option to send your location with it. What I realized was that almost every other message in my chats had a location attached to it, so I decided to have some fun with this data. I wrote a Chrome extension for the Facebook Messenger page (https://www.facebook.com/messages/) that scrapes all this location data and plots it on a map. You can get this extension here and play around with it on your message data.

You may not believe that there are enough of these location tagged messages to provide truly invasive data on any one person, since they must be on mobile, with GPS on, and choose to share their location for it to be sent… right?
What you should keep in mind is that the mobile app for Facebook Messenger defaults to sending a location with all messages.
Go ahead and see how many messages in your chats have locations attached. I’m guessing it’s a lot of them. And if this isn't already starting to get a bit weird, the first thing I noticed when I started to write my code was that the latitude and longitude coordinates of the message locations have more than 5 decimal places of precision, making it possible to pinpoint the sender’s location to less than a meter.
Once the extension was written I naturally started seeing what kind of things I could discover about my Facebook friends.
I am in a pretty active group chat with some of my brother’s friends (who I am friends with on Facebook but don’t know too well). They are all fairly active on the chat, posting once a day or more.
Let’s pick on the one who goes to Stanford. By simply looking at the cluster of messages sent late at night you can tell exactly where his dorm is, and in fact approximately where his room is located in that dorm.
Furthermore, by gathering a couple weeks’ worth of chat data on the map and looking at the location clusters you can even figure out his weekly schedule. With this you can predict exactly which building he would be in at a given time.
In fact I found that I could infer a schedule for almost everyone in this chat as well as the other active chats I am in.
I found that I could even do this for people who I am not Facebook friends with. I am currently in a large active chat to organize poker games with some fellow students, many of whom I am not Facebook friends with. However, I can still track their locations extremely accurately from the messages they send the group.
You can now see the fun (and slightly creepy) things this data allows you to do. But wait there's more! One day when I was chatting frequently with a friend of mine (@tomasreimers) the map allowed me to track his hour by hour locations. At the end of that day the location history on the map closely matched the location history collected by his phone.
Additionally, this map aggregates the location data from all the messages that I send. For the days I was frequently on messenger (posting to different conversations every hour or so), my location history on this map lined up very closely with my phone’s location history.
This means that if a few people who I am chatting with separately collude and send each other the locations I share with them, they would be able to track me very accurately without me ever knowing.
If you want to map your friends’ locations to see for yourself how fun (and creepy) this data is you can download the extension for Chrome here. The code is also available and open source on Github.
For those of you already wanting out here is a great guide on how to ensure you don’t send your locations from the Messenger app.

Let me reiterate that I still find Facebook Messenger extremely useful and use it religiously, albeit with location sharing now turned off. This may lead you to wonder if there really is a problem here, since there is always option to not share your exact coordinates with messages. However, everyone I have shown this extension to has been anywhere from surprised to appalled that this much of their very personal data is online for their friends (and even complete strangers) to access. So it is seems that there is an issue.
Let’s start at the root of the problem: why do so many people give up their location data so readily on Messenger?
The main problem is that every time you open your phone and send a single message it’s so easy to forget about your location data being attached to it. Furthermore, it seems so harmless to attach a location with a single message, but the problem is over time the information from these messages adds up.
Both of these issues in some way stem from the fact that locations are not only included by default, but also are rather subtly placed in the UI. The power of defaults on human behavior is well documented in psychology and suggests that few people will put in the effort to deviate from the default action of sharing. Furthermore, because there are no readily visible consequences to sharing your location, users are never incentivized to devote attention to what this default of sharing is actually revealing about them.
I decided to write this extension, because we are constantly being told how we are losing privacy with the increasing digitization of our lives, however the consequences never seem tangible. With this code you can see for yourself the potentially invasive usage of the information you share, and decide for yourself if this is something you should worry about.
Student at Harvard College in Computer Science and Mathematics. Find me at arankhanna.com
Open minded reading
The web is increasingly becoming a powerful resource that can easily help you learn something new everyday. These awesome sites are just what you need.

There is a good chance you’ll be able to put at least one of these learning tools to good use and come out as a better person than you were last year. These are some of the best websites that will make you smarter every day.
2. 99U (YouTube) — Actionable insights on productivity, organization, and leadership to help creative people push ideas forward.
3. Youtube EDU — The education videos that don’t have cute cats in boxes — but they do unlock knowledge.
4. WikiWand — A slick new interface for Wikipedia.
5. The long read (The Guardian) — In-depth reporting, essays and profiles.
6. TED — Great videos to open your mind on almost every topic.
7. iTunes U — Learning on the go, from some of the world’s top universities.
8. InsightfulQuestions (subreddit) — Intellectual discussions that are not necessarily genre-specific.
9. Cerego — Cerego helps you build personalized study plans based on your strengths and weaknesses to retain knowledge.
10. University of the People — Tuition-free online university that offers higher education in multiple course streams.
11. OpenSesame — Marketplace for online training, now with 22,000+ courses.
12. CreativeLive — Take free creative classes from the world’s top experts.
13. Coursera — Partnering with some of the top U.S. universities, Coursera offers massive open online courses for free.
14. University of reddit — the product of free intellectualism and is a haven for the sharing of knowledge.
15. Quora — You ask, the net discusses — with top experts and fascinating back and forth on everything.
16. Digital Photography School — Read through this goldmine of articles to improve your photography skills.
17. Umano -Explore the largest collection of audio articles powered by real people. Dropbox has acquired Umano. Brain Pickings is a great replacement for 17.
Brain Pickings — Insightful long form posts on life, art, science, design, history, philosophy, and more.
18. Peer 2 Peer University or P2PU, is an open educational project that helps you learn at your own pace.
19. MIT Open CourseWare is a catalog of free online courses and learning resources offered by MIT.
20. Gibbon — This is the ultimate playlist for learning.
21. Investopedia — Learn everything you need to know about the world of investing, markets, and personal finance.
22. Udacity offers interactive online classes and courses in higher education.
23. Mozilla Developer Network offers detailed documentation and learning resources for web developers.
24. Future learn — enjoy free online courses from top universities and specialist organisations.
25. Google Scholar — provides a search of scholarly literature across many disciplines and sources, including theses, books, abstracts and articles.
26. Brain Pump — A place to learn something new everyday.
27. Mental Floss — Test your knowledge with amazing and interesting facts, trivia, quizzes, and brain teaser games.
28. Learnist — Learn from expertly curated web, print and video content.
29. DataCamp — Online R tutorials and data science courses.
30. edX — Take online courses from the world’s best universities.
31. Highbrow — Get bite-sized daily courses to your inbox.
32. Coursmos — Take a micro-course anytime you want, on any device.
33. Platzi — Live streaming classes on design, marketing and code.

“What could be more important to a learner than proficiency in good thinking?” Peter Worley
The author is the founder at Alltopstartups (where he shares startup resources) and Postanly (a free weekly newsletter that delivers the best, most popular and long form posts from top publishers around the web). Follow him on Twitter @Alltopstartups.
Entrepreneur. Blogger. Author. Founder at Alltopstartups.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

Life is exhausting. No joke.
All we do is work. Or think of work. Or talk about work.
Work, work, work.
It wears on us after awhile. We get burned out. Some of us develop unhealthy addictions (like watching endless reruns of Friends). We even get sick.
Want to know what the best remedy I’ve found to battle burnout?
(One of my favorite artists has this tattooed on his arm.)
The reason we burn out isn’t because of this thing called ‘activity’.
Life is action. Movement.
Stillness is an illusion.
We see the proof in nature itself…
The glassy pond, under a microscope, is anything but still.
Even as we sleep, our hearts beat, our hair grows, and our brain zooms full-speed ahead.
Life never complains. It just goes and goes because that’s its nature.
The problem we have is alignment. Things go awry when we get out of alignment with what we’re doing. This is how things die.
Whether we’re just-not-that-into-it or we outright hate it, our intentions are somewhere else while our bodies, brains, and egos are trudging along with a slowly dying battery.
So we do things out of obligation. We feel coerced. Like we have no say in the matter.
We just go through the motions. There’s no soul behind it. No presence.
No wonder we’re burned out.
Want to turn the ship around?
Get into it.
Start doing as much as you can — even the smallest things like washing dishes, mowing the lawn, or doodling — with your full intent behind it. Like it’s the most mindful, enjoyable thing you’ve ever done.
Move through your day with purpose. With direction.
Soon, things will shift. You’ll start happening onto life so it can happen back. You’ll feel alive again (and will probably sleep better too).

Life is a ping-pong game. You’re serving. Until you move, it’s just gonna stand there and look at you.
You gonna bring the heat or not?
Heretic. Spiritual consigliere. Consciousness alignment specialist and sherpa. | About: http://bit.ly/1zgSK21 | Subscribe: http://bit.ly/1ULQlbK.
Short daily essays by Jonas Ellison about good, clean creative living and thoughts of a higher nature. | Subscribe via email: http://bit.ly/1ULQlbK.



Woah.
Cosmopolitan covers started out with women dressed conservatively. Then they started showing some skin. Then more skin. Finally, they started posing in sexy positions.
As women have earned more rights throughout the years, they’ve also earned the right to wear whatever they damn well please. Or maybe that just sells more magazines?


No bikini-clad teens here. It’s still pretty wholesome.
The Seventeen logo has stayed the same, but almost everything else about the design has changed. There was a time when the cover was delightfully simple. Then things just got more and more cluttered.
The magazine cover’s job is to sell the magazine — it has to stand out in a rack full of other magazines. So the design starts to get louder and louder.
When doing research for this article, I kept getting headaches whenever I looked at Seventeen covers for too long. Google image search “Seventeen Magazine” and you’ll see what I mean:
Ow. My eyes.


These are our new role models.
Ah, the Kardashians. Whether you love them, or love to hate them — there’s no disputing they’re wicked talented at monetizing their fame.
Vogue has had some gorgeous covers throughout the years. Like every other magazine, they’ve added more text on their covers to lure the readers in. But unlike Seventeen, they’ve done a good job of keeping the design classy and uncluttered.
For a more scientific look, check out Robots Reading Vogue, which compiled visual averages for all of the past covers of Vogue. (Thanks to Redditor othfilms for the find).


A walk down history, as seen through Time covers:
Time has done a great job branding its recognizable red border. The design has remained mostly consistent — except for a brief logo change in the 70's and 80's, which they quickly realized was a bad idea.
Time continues to feature America’s icons year after year — from presidents to pop stars. Who will be our icons in the next 100 years?

It surprised me that National Geographic’s covers were so text-heavy for most of its existence. This is a magazine that is perhaps best known for its beautiful full-bleed photography — yet they didn’t adopt this style until the 1960's. In contrast, magazines like Vogue and Cosmopolitan were were way ahead of the curve, featuring full-page illustrations as early as the 1900s.
Like Time, National Geographic has done an excellent job of branding its recognizable yellow border.


“Hey, we can sell more magazines with women in bikinis instead!”
— GQ’s marketing strategy
For a long time, every cover of GQ was pretty much the same. A white man in a suit. It’s a wonder it took them until 1990 to figure out that they might be able to sell more magazines by putting women on the cover instead.
GQ has gotten racy, sure — but also delightfully creative.
Damn, girl! This isn’t your average topless photoshoot.
GQ actually got in quite a bit of trouble for depicting Amy Schumer sexually with Star Wars characters. They didn’t get permission from Disney (who undoubtedly wouldn’t have granted it), and many Star Wars fans found it offensive. But Amy Schumer loved it, and said she would do it again.
Remarkably, The New Yorker hasn’t changed one bit.
The cover on the right is a special 90th anniversary issue, a clever recreation of the very first New Yorker cover on the left.
Compare the covers from decade to decade:
Pick out any cover at random, and it isn’t immediately obvious what time period it belongs to. With everything else that’s changed around us, The New Yorker has been remarkably consistent.
Their logo has endured 90 years. They continue to charm us with their hand-drawn illustrations. And unlike every other magazine, they haven’t been pressured into adding a bunch of text on the cover.
All magazines experiment with their design and learn what sells. And most other magazines — Cosmopolitan, Seventeen, Vogue, Time, GQ — have pretty much converged to the same design: a photo of a person, usually an attractive female, prominently featuring her face and body — with text headlines designed to get you to want to read what’s inside. This is the formula that sells their magazines.
Survival of the fittest, capitalism edition.
But not The New Yorker. It takes discipline to zig when everyone else is zagging.
You do you, New Yorker.


What 100 years of progress looks like:
What makes Caitlyn’s cover special is not just the subject matter, but the style as well. Let’s compare Caitlyn Jenner’s cover with every other cover in 2015:
The other covers are littered with mounds of text. Not this issue.
Call me Caitlyn. Just three words.
They didn’t need to sell the other stories. This issue was all about her. Vanity Fair nailed it.
You go, Caitlyn!


Together, these magazine covers reveal a peek into our history. Sure, we’ve gotten more sexualized. More superficial. We read less. We have shorter attention spans.
But we’ve also gotten more open-minded. At each step along the way, society has pushed the limits of what’s considered acceptable.
Not so long ago, black people couldn’t vote. Though they still face significant discrimination, they are also now idolized on magazine covers. As women have earned more rights over the years, they now take control of their sexuality. And Vanity Fair’s most iconic cover this year is a woman who used to identify as a man.
We’ve come a long way in 100 years.


Notice any trends we missed? Add your analysis in the comments.



Karen makes viral videos and explainer videos for startups. Follow her on Medium, Facebook or Instagram.
Jerry is product design consultant in San Francisco. Check out his portfolio.


Feel free to quote and embed the pictures on your publication. Please credit and link back: Karen X. Cheng and Jerry Gabra. Magazine covers are copyright by their respective publications. Comparison images created by Karen X. Cheng and Jerry Gabra. If you have questions, email karenxcheng (at) gmail (dot) com
Thanks to Orion Hombrebueno for research help. Thanks to Adam Lee, Oliver Emberton, Ketan Anjaria, Sam Brewczynski, Lynn Tao, Brooks Hassig and Rachman Blake for helpful feedback on drafts of this article.
I make viral videos and explainer videos for startups. http://karenx.com
By Hossein DerakhshanIllustrations by Tim McDonagh
Seven months ago, I sat down at the small table in the kitchen of my 1960s apartment, nestled on the top floor of a building in a vibrant central neighbourhood of Tehran, and I did something I had done thousands of times previously. I opened my laptop and posted to my new blog. This, though, was the first time in six years. And it nearly broke my heart.
A few weeks earlier, I’d been abruptly pardoned and freed from Evin prison in northern Tehran. I had been expecting to spend most of my life in those cells: In November 2008, I’d been sentenced to nearly 20 years in jail, mostly for things I’d written on my blog.
But the moment, when it came, was unexpected. I smoked a cigarette in the kitchen with one of my fellow inmates, and came back to the room I shared with a dozen other men. We were sharing a cup of tea when the voice of the floor announcer — another prisoner — filled all the rooms and corridors. In his flat voice, he announced in Persian: “Dear fellow inmates, the bird of luck has once again sat on one fellow inmate’s shoulders. Mr. Hossein Derakhshan, as of this moment, you are free.”
That evening was the first time that I went out of those doors as a free man. Everything felt new: The chill autumn breeze, the traffic noise from a nearby bridge, the smell, the colors of the city I had lived in for most of my life.
Around me, I noticed a very different Tehran from the one I’d been used to. An influx of new, shamelessly luxurious condos had replaced the charming little houses I was familiar with. New roads, new highways, hordes of invasive SUVs. Large billboards with advertisements for Swiss-made watches and Korean flat screen TVs. Women in colorful scarves and manteaus, men with dyed hair and beards, and hundreds of charming cafes with hip western music and female staff. They were the kinds of changes that creep up on people; the kind you only really notice once normal life gets taken away from you.
Two weeks later, I began writing again. Some friends agreed to let me start a blog as part of their arts magazine. I called it Ketabkhan — it means book-reader in Persian.
Six years was a long time to be in jail, but it’s an entire era online. Writing on the internet itself had not changed, but reading — or, at least, getting things read — had altered dramatically. I’d been told how essential social networks had become while I’d been gone, and so I knew one thing: If I wanted to lure people to see my writing, I had to use social media now.
So I tried to post a link to one of my stories on Facebook. Turns out Facebook didn’t care much. It ended up looking like a boring classified ad. No description. No image. Nothing. It got three likes. Three! That was it.
It became clear to me, right there, that things had changed. I was not equipped to play on this new turf — all my investment and effort had burned up. I was devastated.
Blogs were gold and bloggers were rock stars back in 2008 when I was arrested. At that point, and despite the fact the state was blocking access to my blog from inside Iran, I had an audience of around 20,000 people every day. Everybody I linked to would face a sudden and serious jump in traffic: I could empower or embarrass anyone I wanted.
People used to carefully read my posts and leave lots of relevant comments, and even many of those who strongly disagreed with me still came to read. Other blogs linked to mine to discuss what I was saying. I felt like a king.
The iPhone was a little over a year old by then, but smartphones were still mostly used to make phone calls and send short messages, handle emails, and surf the web. There were no real apps, certainly not how we think of them today. There was no Instagram, no SnapChat, no Viber, no WhatsApp.
Instead, there was the web, and on the web, there were blogs: the best place to find alternative thoughts, news and analysis. They were my life.
It had all started with 9/11. I was in Toronto, and my father had just arrived from Tehran for a visit. We were having breakfast when the second plane hit the World Trade Center. I was puzzled and confused and, looking for insights and explanations, I came across blogs. Once I read a few, I thought: This is it, I should start one, and encourage all Iranians to start blogging as well. So, using Notepad on Windows, I started experimenting. Soon I ended up writing on hoder.com, using Blogger’s publishing platform before Google bought it.
Then, on November 5, 2001, I published a step-to-step guide on how to start a blog. That sparked something that was later called a blogging revolution: Soon, hundreds and thousands of Iranians made it one of the top 5 nations by the number of blogs, and I was proud to have a role in this unprecedented democratization of writing.
Those days, I used to keep a list of all blogs in Persian and, for a while, I was the first person any new blogger in Iran would contact, so they could get on the list. That’s why they called me “the blogfather” in my mid-twenties — it was a silly nickname, but at least it hinted at how much I cared.
Every morning, from my small apartment in downtown Toronto, I opened my computer and took care of the new blogs, helping them gain exposure and audience. It was a diverse crowd — from exiled authors and journalists, female diarists, and technology experts, to local journalists, politicians, clerics, and war veterans — and I always encouraged even more. I invited more religious, and pro-Islamic Republic men and women, people who lived inside Iran, to join and start writing.
The breadth of what was available those days amazed us all. It was partly why I promoted blogging so seriously. I’d left Iran in late 2000 to experience living in the West, and was scared that I was missing all the rapidly emerging trends at home. But reading Iranian blogs in Toronto was the closest experience I could have to sitting in a shared taxi in Tehran and listening to collective conversations between the talkative driver and random passengers.
There’s a story in the Quran that I thought about a lot during my first eight months in solitary confinement. In it, a group of persecuted Christians find refuge in a cave. They, and a dog they have with them, fall into a deep sleep. They wake up under the impression that they’ve taken a nap: In fact, it’s 300 years later. One version of the story tells of how one of them goes out to buy food — and I can only imagine how hungry they must’ve been after 300 years — and discovers that his money is obsolete now, a museum item. That’s when he realizes how long they have actually been absent.
The hyperlink was my currency six years ago. Stemming from the idea of the hypertext, the hyperlink provided a diversity and decentralisation that the real world lacked. The hyperlink represented the open, interconnected spirit of the world wide web — a vision that started with its inventor, Tim Berners-Lee. The hyperlink was a way to abandon centralization — all the links, lines and hierarchies — and replace them with something more distributed, a system of nodes and networks.
Blogs gave form to that spirit of decentralization: They were windows into lives you’d rarely know much about; bridges that connected different lives to each other and thereby changed them. Blogs were cafes where people exchanged diverse ideas on any and every topic you could possibly be interested in. They were Tehran’s taxicabs writ large.
Since I got out of jail, though, I’ve realized how much the hyperlink has been devalued, almost made obsolete.
Nearly every social network now treats a link as just the same as it treats any other object — the same as a photo, or a piece of text — instead of seeing it as a way to make that text richer. You’re encouraged to post one single hyperlink and expose it to a quasi-democratic process of liking and plussing and hearting: Adding several links to a piece of text is usually not allowed. Hyperlinks are objectivized, isolated, stripped of their powers.
At the same time, these social networks tend to treat native text and pictures — things that are directly posted to them — with a lot more respect than those that reside on outside web pages. One photographer friend explained to me how the images he uploads directly to Facebook receive a large number of likes, which in turn means they appear more on other people’s news feeds. On the other hand, when he posts a link to the same picture somewhere outside Facebook — his now-dusty blog, for instance — the images are much less visible to Facebook itself, and therefore get far fewer likes. The cycle reinforces itself.
Some networks, like Twitter, treat hyperlinks a little better. Others, insecure social services, are far more paranoid. Instagram — owned by Facebook — doesn’t allow its audiences to leave whatsoever. You can put up a web address alongside your photos, but it won’t go anywhere. Lots of people start their daily online routine in these cul de sacs of social media, and their journeys end there. Many don’t even realize that they’re using the Internet’s infrastructure when they like an Instagram photograph or leave a comment on a friend’s Facebook video. It’s just an app.
But hyperlinks aren’t just the skeleton of the web: They are its eyes, a path to its soul. And a blind webpage, one without hyperlinks, can’t look or gaze at another webpage — and this has serious consequences for the dynamics of power on the web.
More or less, all theorists have thought of gaze in relation to power, and mostly in a negative sense: the gazer strips the gazed and turns her into a powerless object, devoid of intelligence or agency. But in the world of webpages, gaze functions differently: It is more empowering. When a powerful website — say Google or Facebook — gazes at, or links to, another webpage, it doesn’t just connect it — it brings it into existence; gives it life. Metaphorically, without this empowering gaze, your web page doesn’t breathe. No matter how many links you have placed in a webpage, unless somebody is looking at it, it is actually both dead and blind; and therefore incapable of transferring power to any outside web page.
On the other hand, the most powerful web pages are those that have many eyes upon them. Just like celebrities who draw a kind of power from the millions of human eyes gazing at them any given time, web pages can capture and distribute their power through hyperlinks.
But apps like Instagram are blind — or almost blind. Their gaze goes nowhere except inwards, reluctant to transfer any of their vast powers to others, leading them into quiet deaths. The consequence is that web pages outside social media are dying.
Even before I went to jail, though, the power of hyperlinks was being curbed. Its biggest enemy was a philosophy that combined two of the most dominant, and most overrated, values of our times: novelty and popularity, reflected by the real world dominance of young celebrities. That philosophy is the Stream.
The Stream now dominates the way people receive information on the web. Fewer users are directly checking dedicated webpages, instead getting fed by a never-ending flow of information that’s picked for them by complex –and secretive — algorithms.
The Stream means you don’t need to open so many websites any more. You don’t need numerous tabs. You don’t even need a web browser. You open Twitter or Facebook on your smartphone and dive deep in. The mountain has come to you. Algorithms have picked everything for you. According to what you or your friends have read or seen before, they predict what you might like to see. It feels great not to waste time in finding interesting things on so many websites.
But are we missing something here? What are we exchanging for efficiency?
In many apps, the votes we cast — the likes, the plusses, the stars, the hearts — are actually more related to cute avatars and celebrity status than to the substance of what’s posted. A most brilliant paragraph by some ordinary-looking person can be left outside the Stream, while the silly ramblings of a celebrity gain instant Internet presence.
And not only do the algorithms behind the Stream equate newness and popularity with importance, they also tend to show us more of what we’ve already liked. These services carefully scan our behaviour and delicately tailor our news feeds with posts, pictures and videos that they think we would most likely want to see.
Popularity is not wrong in and of itself, but it has its own perils. In a free-market economy, low-quality goods with the wrong prices are doomed to failure. Nobody gets upset when a quiet Brooklyn cafe with bad lattes and rude servers goes out of business. But opinions are not the same as material goods or services. They won’t disappear if they are unpopular or even bad. In fact, history has proven that most big ideas (and many bad ones) have been quite unpopular for a long time, and their marginal status has only strengthened them. Minority views are radicalized when they can’t be expressed and recognized.
Today the Stream is digital media’s dominant form of organizing information. It’s in every social network and mobile application. Since I gained my freedom, everywhere I turn I see the Stream. I guess it won’t be too long before we see news websites organize their entire content based on the same principles. The prominence of the Stream today doesn’t just make vast chunks of the Internet biased against quality — it also means a deep betrayal to the diversity that the world wide web had originally envisioned.
There’s no question to me that the diversity of themes and opinions is less online today than it was in the past. New, different, and challenging ideas get suppressed by today’s social networks because their ranking strategies prioritize the popular and habitual. (No wonder why Apple is hiring human editors for its news app.) But diversity is being reduced in other ways, and for other purposes.
Some of it is visual. Yes, it is true that all my posts on Twitter and Facebook look something similar to a personal blog: They are collected in reverse-chronological order, on a specific webpage, with direct web addresses to each post. But I have very little control over how it looks like; I can’t personalize it much. My page must follow a uniform look which the designers of the social network decide for me.
The centralization of information also worries me because it makes it easier for things to disappear. After my arrest, my hosting service closed my account, because I wasn’t able to pay its monthly fee. But at least I had a backup of all my posts in a database on my own web server. (Most blogging platforms used to enable you to transfer your posts and archives to your own web space, whereas now most platforms don’t let you so.) Even if I didn’t, the Internet archive might keep a copy. But what if my account on Facebook or Twitter is shut down for any reason? Those services themselves may not die any time soon, but it would be not too difficult to imagine a day many American services shut down accounts of anyone who is from Iran, as a result of the current regime of sanctions. If that happened, I might be able to download my posts in some of them, and let’s assume the backup can be easily imported into another platform. But what about the unique web address for my social network profile? Would I be able to claim it back later, after somebody else has possessed it? Domain names switch hands, too, but managing the process is easier and more clear— especially since there is a financial relationship between you and the seller which makes it less prone to sudden and untransparent decisions.
But the scariest outcome of the centralization of information in the age of social networks is something else: It is making us all much less powerful in relation to governments and corporations.
Surveillance is increasingly imposed on civilized lives, and it just gets worse as time goes by. The only way to stay outside of this vast apparatus of surveillance might be to go into a cave and sleep, even if you can’t make it 300 years.
Being watched is something we all eventually have to get used to and live with and, sadly, it has nothing to do with the country of our residence. Ironically enough, states that cooperate with Facebook and Twitter know much more about their citizens than those, like Iran, where the state has a tight grip on the Internet but does not have legal access to social media companies.
What is more frightening than being merely watched, though, is being controlled. When Facebook can know us better than our parents with only 150 likes, and better than our spouses with 300 likes, the world appears quite predictable, both for governments and for businesses. And predictability means control.
Middle-class Iranians, like most people in the world, are obsessed with new trends. Utility or quality of things usually comes second to their trendiness. In early 2000s writing blogs made you cool and trendy, then around 2008 Facebook came in and then Twitter. Since 2014 the hype is all about Instagram, and no one knows what is next. But the more I think about these changes, the more I realize that even all my concerns might have been misdirected. Perhaps I am worried about the wrong thing. Maybe it’s not the death of the hyperlink, or the centralization, exactly.
Maybe it’s that text itself is disappearing. After all, the first visitors to the web spent their time online reading web magazines. Then came blogs, then Facebook, then Twitter. Now it’s Facebook videos and Instagram and SnapChat that most people spend their time on. There’s less and less text to read on social networks, and more and more video to watch, more and more images to look at. Are we witnessing a decline of reading on the web in favor of watching and listening?
Is this trend driven by people’s changing cultural habits, or is it that people are following the new laws of social networking? I don’t know — that’s for researchers to find out — but it feels like it’s reviving old cultural wars. After all, the web started out by imitating books and for many years, it was heavily dominated by text, by hypertext. Search engines put huge value on these things, and entire companies — entire monopolies — were built off the back of them. But as the number of image scanners and digital photos and video cameras grows exponentially, this seems to be changing. Search tools are starting to add advanced image recognition algorithms; advertising money is flowing there.
But the Stream, mobile applications, and moving images: They all show a departure from a books-internet toward a television-internet. We seem to have gone from a non-linear mode of communication — nodes and networks and links — toward a linear one, with centralization and hierarchies.
The web was not envisioned as a form of television when it was invented. But, like it or not, it is rapidly resembling TV: linear, passive, programmed and inward-looking.
When I log on to Facebook, my personal television starts. All I need to do is to scroll: New profile pictures by friends, short bits of opinion on current affairs, links to new stories with short captions, advertising, and of course self-playing videos. I occasionally click on like or share button, read peoples’ comments or leave one, or open an article. But I remain inside Facebook, and it continues to broadcast what I might like. This is not the web I knew when I went to jail. This is not the future of the web. This future is television.
Sometimes I think maybe I’m becoming too strict as I age. Maybe this is all a natural evolution of a technology. But I can’t close my eyes to what’s happening: A loss of intellectual power and diversity, and on the great potentials it could have for our troubled time. In the past, the web was powerful and serious enough to land me in jail. Today it feels like little more than entertainment. So much that even Iran doesn’t take some — Instagram, for instance — serious enough to block.
I miss when people took time to be exposed to different opinions, and bothered to read more than a paragraph or 140 characters. I miss the days when I could write something on my own blog, publish on my own domain, without taking an equal time to promote it on numerous social networks; when nobody cared about likes and reshares.
That’s the web I remember before jail. That’s the web we have to save.
Log in to Medium and “recommend” this story.Follow Matter on Twitter | Like us on Facebook
Iranian-Canadian author, blogger. Freed from Evin prison after 6 yrs, in Nov 2014. Trying to get back to normal life. hoder@hoder.com
The story you’ve been missing.
Millions of narcissistic little jerks, reared by an uncommonly hysterical generation who instilled in their children the adamantine conviction that they are exceptional and necessarily worthy of respect, enrolled this week as freshman in universities across the United States.
There was a moment when this exercise might have tested these students, made better and new through confrontation with the uncomfortable and occasionally outrageous thought.
Now, instead, they will pass the next four years of pseudo-scholarship as they have the eighteen that preceded them: swaddled in institutionalized political correctness and protected always from the unconventional or provocative.
At two- and four-year colleges and universities all across the nation, administrators have adopted stringent “speech codes” that restrict speech and behavior otherwise explicitly protected under the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.
The result isn’t simply an emotionally delicate dolt, but a broader culture at jeopardy of losing the most foundational of human rights. Today’s over-sensitivity to offense means these students may be entirely desensitized to the loss of speech tomorrow, even in the face of gross government encroachment.
These speech codes stretch from the ludicrous, like Jacksonville State University’s* policy that students not offend anyone, to the plainly unlawful.
While regarded by administrators as a sort of legal prophylactic — if no one is offended, no one can bring suit against the university, the argument goes — these policies have actually invited serious and sustained litigation by students and civil liberties advocates.
According to a national policy review of more than 400 institutions of higher learning by the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE), a not-for-profit educational foundation, more than half of those schools with speech codes would not survive judicial review.
In the case of FIRE, some 36 schools have abandoned or severely restrained their speech codes after the group brought suit on behalf of aggrieved students and faculty whose right to lawful speech were infringed.
They’ve won, repeatedly, because the privilege not to be offended is no right at all. Moreover, intellectual discomfort is a necessary tool in emotional and scholastic development — and restrictive speech codes actively retard the process.
I should know: it wasn’t so long ago that I advanced from a parochial secondary school, wherein students were taught that man and dinosaur had once coexisted before a great flood washed the earth clean, to a monstrous state university where students learned genuine science.
This science was accepted, corroborated, quantifiable, and yet also deeply offensive to a child whose narrow appreciation for the world around him was fixed in young earth Creationism.
But my offense led to introspection, and in turn growth.
The new climate of institutionalized over-sensitivity that today plagues academia — the accepted belief that one has the right to never be offended — is so acute that dissent of any sort is not allowed. These policies require either conformity or silence, and they result in a dangerous chilling of the free exchange of ideas.
Millennials, the obnoxious selfie-snapping age cohort into which I was cursed to fall, are truly horrible enough without your help, academia. KTHXBAI.
The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely the author’s and do not necessarily reflect the views of his employer or clients.
*Ed. note: This article incorrectly attributed the speech code policy of Jacksonville State University to another university and has since been amended.
[Autonomous is a free digital magazine. But you can donate to the mission, and receive a variety of added benefits (including extra content), by visiting our Patreon page.]
A one-time flack for: @JonHuntsman, @HaleyBarbour, @RNC, @CRNC. Also, a yoga teacher.
A new look at American culture today, and where we’re headed — specifically, where culture intersects with politics, media, technology, morality and political correctness.

Countless books and articles have been written about Warren Buffett. Surprisingly few have been written about his business partner of over 40 years, Charlie Munger.
Munger has stayed out of the public eye, giving only a small number of public talks, and he’s rarely been covered in the media. At Berkshire Hathaway’s annual shareholder’s meetings, he lets Buffett answer the questions, often times commenting, “I have nothing to add.”
Recently, I decided to learn more about Munger’s 70-year career, and I’ve been blown away. His model for success, backed by research, is simple and game-changing. It flies in the face of conventional wisdom on career success.
Beyond The 10,000 Hour Rule
A great deal has been written about how deliberate practice over 10,000 hours within a specific area of expertise is the key to success.
While Munger has certainly worked long and hard to become one of the world’s top investors, the signature of his success is different. According to his own account, rather than focusing on investment theory like a laser, he has studied widely and deeply in many fields, including microeconomics, psychology, law, mathematics, biology, and engineering, and applied insights from them to investing.
Bill Gates has said of Munger, “He is truly the broadest thinker I have ever encountered. From business principles to economic principles to the design of student dormitories to the design of a catamaran he has no equal… Our longest correspondence was a detailed discussion on the mating habits of naked mole rats and what the human species might learn from them.” Munger has, in short, been the ultimate expert-generalist.
The Rise Of The Expert-Generalist
The rival argument to the 10,000 hour rule is the expert-generalist approach. Orit Gadiesh, chairman of Bain & Co, who coined the term, describes the expert-generalist as:
“Someone who has the ability and curiosity to master and collect expertise in many different disciplines, industries, skills, capabilities, countries, and topics., etc. He or she can then, without necessarily even realizing it, but often by design:
The concept is commonly represented by this model of the “T-shaped individual”:
While the 10,000 hour rule works well in areas with defined rules that don’t change such as sports, music, and games, the rules of business constantly and fundamentally change. Being an expert-generalist allows individuals to quickly adapt to change. Research shows that they:
Charlie Munger’s Approach To Being An Expert-Generalist
In connecting the dots across the disciplines, Munger has developed a set of what he calls models, which he uses to assess investment opportunities. In fact, he’s identified over 100 of these models that he uses frequently as of the publication of Poor Charlie’s Almanack. No doubt he continues to develop and perfect them.
What are these models exactly?
The best way to explain is to take the case of one he uses constantly, which he calls Two-Track analysis. It combines insights from psychology, neuroscience and economics about the nature of human behavior. This model instructs that when analyzing any situation in which decision-making by people is involved, which of course covers every business situation, he must consider two tracks:
Another example is classical conditioning developed by Ivan Pavlov in the early 20th century. Pavlov discovered that with the right conditioning, dogs would salivate not just when eating food, but also in anticipation of it when he walked into the laboratory. Munger applies the same logic to business. In his book, he gives the example of how Coca-Cola (one of Berkshire Hathaway’s largest holdings) conditions its customers with the right frequency and type of advertising while using their logo as the trigger.
The following is a summary of his rules on being an expert-generalist in his own words, excerpted and condensed from the various talks he’s given:
Rule #1: Learn Multiple Models
“The first rule is that you’ve got to have multiple models — because if you just have one or two that you’re using, the nature of human psychology is such that you’ll torture reality so that it fits your models.”
“It’s like the old saying, ‘To the man with only a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.’ But that’s a perfectly disastrous way to think and a perfectly disastrous way to operate in the world.”
Rule #2: Learn Multiple Models From Multiple Disciplines
“And the models have to come from multiple disciplines — because all the wisdom of the world is not to be found in one little academic department.”
Rule #3: Focus On Big Ideas From The Big Disciplines (20% Of Models Create 80% Of The Results)
“You may say, ‘My God, this is already getting way too tough.’ But, fortunately, it isn’t that tough — because 80 or 90 important models will carry about 90% of the freight in making you a worldly-wise person. And, of those, only a mere handful really carry very heavy freight.”
Rule #4: Use A Checklist To Ensure You’re Factoring in the Right Models
“Use a checklist to be sure you get all of the main models.”
“How can smart people be wrong? Well, the answer is that they don’t…take all the main models from psychology and use them as a checklist in reviewing outcomes in complex systems.”
Rule #5: Create Multiple Checklists And Use The Right One For The Situation
“You need a different checklist and different mental models for different companies. I can never make it easy by saying, ‘Here are three things.’ You have to drive it yourself to ingrain it in your head for the rest of your life.”
The Expert-Generalist Approach In Different Fields
Whether or not you decide to follow Munger’s particular approach, one clear takeaway is the value of gaining a wide breadth of knowledge while also drilling deeply into your area of specialty.
Many of the top scientists, business leaders, inventors and artists throughout time have also achieved their breakthrough successes by being an expert-generalist. Albert Einstein was trained in physics, but to formulate his law of general relativity, he taught himself an area of mathematics far removed from his expertise, Riemannian geometry. James Watson and Francis Crick combined discoveries in X-ray diffraction technology, chemistry, evolutionary theory and computation to solve the puzzle of the double helix. Steve Jobs, of course, drew on insights from his study of calligraphy and a rich understanding of design to create a new breed of computing devices.
Here is an infographic with 25 of the top expert-generalists throughout history:
Bain & Company chairman, Orit Gadiesh, attests to the value of being a voracious reader across many domains in her own career, saying:
What’s more, those who can bridge the gaps between silos are becoming more valuable than ever as the amount of knowledge in the world and its fragmentation continue to accelerate.
Being An Expert-Generalist Will Become More And More Valued
The discipline known as scientometrics is the science of science; it studies the evolution of scientific knowledge. Two of the key findings of this field are:
As disciplines emerge and mature, they develop their own cultures and languages. Each has its own terminology along with its own journals and annual conferences. This specialization has already become so extreme that those who are specialists in one subfield of a discipline often know little to nothing about the work going on in other subfields.
Consider the increasing specialization that has led to one important new area of science, epigenetics. Epigenetics is essentially the study of how environmental factors affect how our genes are expressed. When biology emerged as a field of its own out of medicine and natural history in the 19th century, it would have been possible for any biologist to gain a good grasp of the whole field. Today, many geneticists would tell you they don’t have any real understanding of the findings in epigenetics.
Given this state of affairs, many professionals have determined the best approached is to go into sub, sub, sub specialties, where they can hope to become one of the best if they follow the 10,000 rule. That can indeed be fruitful. But opportunities also abound for those who instead develop an aptitude for building connections across disciplines.
Expert-generalists face far less competition. The more fields you can pull from, the fewer people you’ll find taking the same approach. When it comes to drilling into one domain,the competition is generally fierce. Narrowly specializingalso leaves you vulnerable to the ever-more daunting forces of change. Orit Gadiesh offers insight in this regard:
“As technology, globalization, geopolitical challenges, and competition accelerate the disruption of business, people are confronted with challenges, customs, and issues they have never experienced before. I find that experts — someone with deep knowledge limited to just one area — often lack the flexibility needed to adapt to change and can be easily flustered or, worse, be completely derailed.”
Curiouser and Curiouser
The business world has placed great emphasis on focus, and rightly so. It is a vital ingredient of success. But more emphasis must now be placed on curiosity. Too often, we are so pressed by the day-to-day demands of work that we aren’t making time for exploration, diving into areas entirely outside our range of experience, letting our minds run, and finding inspiration from encountering new ideas with uncertain payoffs.
So, when you find yourself pushing back, the inner voice of work overload screaming that you don’t have time to be reading that book you just picked up about the physics of time travel or the novel someone recommended by the Nigerian Nobel Prize winner, remember this: Bill Gates recalls that the longest correspondence he’s had with Charlie Munger wasn’t about an investment, it was about the mating habits.
* * * * *
As a resource for this article, I put together a 27-page report you can download at no cost. It summarizes the psychological biases that Munger has identified throughout his 70-year career. I put it together because I didn’t see another summary anywhere else that was easy to comprehend or apply.
* * * * *
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Flossing. 30 minutes of daily physical activity. Morning meditation.
Yuck. Blah. Shit.
As someone who rarely succeeds in forming a new habit, I’m both proud and confounded to say I’ve somehow managed to start a daily ritual and keep up with it for the past eight months.
That ritual is called Morning Pages, and it has become part of my morning routine into the Escape School in London:
Wake up. Shower. Make a 3-egg and veg scramble. Walk to the Tube. Step onto the District line. Sit down. Pull out my notebook. Start writing.
My task is to write three pages, longhand. If I don’t hit three pages on my Tube ride (which I normally don’t), I duck into a coffeeshop to finish the rest.
So, what are these “Morning Pages” and why do I care so much about them?

Morning Pages is a practice introduced by Julia Cameron in The Artist’s Way, a book designed to help blocked creatives get unblocked.
Although it’s disguised as a book for “artists” — it’s really a guide for anyone who’s feeling stuck, unfulfilled in their work, or believe that their best music is left unsung (even if they don’t know what song they’re meant to be singing).
It’s a book to help people deal with that sonofabitch Steven Pressfield calls out by name in The War of Art: “The Resistance”
Cameron’s The Artist’s Way is meant for anyone who wants to tap back into their creative selves. Which frankly could be any of us. Because, if we’re honest, we’re all creative. Even if we’ve managed to forget that somewhere along the way.
There are two bedrock practices that Cameron swears by and implores her readers to undertake in The Artist’s Way. The first is Morning Pages. (The second is the Artist Date, which is an equally amazing practice, and which I’ll write about another time).
The practice of Morning Pages is simple: write three pages, long-hand, upon (or nearly upon) waking. No thinking, no analyzing, no stressing. Just write. Put pen to paper and squiggle it around until it forms words. What you write matters little. What matters is just that you write. Get whatever is at the forefront of your mind out of your mind and place it onto the page. Do not hold back. Do not judge. And do not stop until you’ve hit three pages.
This is not meant to be high art. The output of Morning Pages is not for public consumption. Cameron suggests they’re not even for private consumption:
I’ve come to love my morning pages. Which is unlike my love/hate relationship with writing publicly (my soul seems to require it, but damnit the process feels like wrestling with the Hulk). I love my morning pages because there is no heaviness in the outcome of the pages. It’s a form of unnecessary creation — just writing for the sake of writing. There may be heaviness in trying to form the habit of writing itself (more on this below), but once you crack that, it’s all lightness. It’s a lightness that lives in caring about the process itself, not in the outcome of that process.
Sometimes my morning pages are a streaming conscious-like flow of questions with half-assed answers. Sometimes they recount a day or a night or a moment. Other times they explore a philosophy, an idea, an obstacle or an opportunity. Sometimes they feel profound. Mostly they feel like bitching, and if read out loud, would resemble cracked-out crazy-person talk.
Which I suppose is the point. So much of our mind, if we’re paying attention, is cluttered and a’flutter with unhelpful, cracked-out thoughts. It’s this kind of muck that blocks us from doing the work we truly aspire to be doing; it’s the junk that hold us back from becoming the person we hope to become.
Whether it’s Morning Pages or some other ritual, it seems that people who create things that resonate or live storybook-like lives have some sort of daily practice. Entire books are even dedicated to the daily routines of accomplished people.
Whatever the routine, it seems that one purpose of these daily rituals is to get the noisy crazies out of the way to leave space for some magic to enter. If it chooses to enter. Or rather, put both the crazy and magic together on the same page so at least you can view them as peers and have a better shot at telling them apart.
Morning Pages is a sifter for the mind. Like meditation or running, it’s one more tool used to separate and disarm those unhelpful thoughts and help those introverted golden thoughts to shine through. Because there are gold in dem hills. Sometimes we just need a practice and a tool to help extract it.
Morning Pages have the potential to be cathartic, helpful and light. If there is a heaviness, it doesn’t exist in the ritual itself, but on the road toward the ritual.

I’m certainly no expert on building habits or rituals. (For that, I suggest checking out The Power of Habit by Charles Duhigg.) But if there’s anything I’ve learned from my newfound dedication to Morning Pages, it’s that there are ways to encourage a habit to stick.
Writing and becoming a better writer is something that drives me. It’s a strong craving I fell into when I started this blog. It’s something I can’t seem to shake.
For the habit you hope to create — what is your burning why behind it all? Why bother with this habit at all?
Sometimes the craving can come from a pain that’s too tough to bear.
Craving or pain, try to articulate and harness a strong emotion and align it with the why behind the habit. Find it and hold it tightly. Tie it to the new habit you hope to form. Use it as fuel. Give it a purpose. Your habit depends on it.
My Morning Pages has a friend — my already established daily routine.
When I sit down on the Tube, the act of pulling out my notebook has become a knee-jerk reaction. It happens almost without me thinking.
My Morning Pages also has a kryptonite — the absence of my routine.
When I do not take the Tube in the morning, when I am rushing to a meeting, when my morning routine is shaken up — my habit crumbles. My Morning Pages live and die by my ability to keep a routine.
Ideally, if the habit has sustained long enough, it will become its own ingrained habit like eating breakfast or brushing teeth. Which is a ritual’s goal: to become a routine itself so that another new ritual can piggyback on top of it.
What’s my reward for having done morning pages? For one, it’s the satisfaction of achieving a little sliver of clarity and comfort that the Pages tend to deliver. It doesn’t always come. But the times that it does makes it worth the daily habit.
There’s also the reward of having written and documented my thoughts. It’s being able to look at my stack of weathered notebooks and know that I’ve created something, just for the sake of it. For the sake of remembering that I am a human and therefore can create. And that when faced with the choice to either create or not create — I went forth and created.
And finally, as someone who sways toward introversion, I’ve noticed it takes dedication, care and patience to make myself heard. Even if it’s only to myself.
Like the simple truth Bertie learns leading up to his final battle with the mic in The King’s Speech, Morning Pages helps to remind me: “I have a voice.”
And if that isn’t reward enough, I’m not sure what is.
Thank you for reading.
If you enjoyed this and think it can help others, will you please “Recommend” or share with a friend?
And if you want to stay in touch with me (Matt), please join me…On my home turf: GiveLiveExploreIn London at The Escape SchoolOR…In the English countryside for a weekend of fun & adventure: Escape to the Woods
Former consultant turned deliberate journeyer @ GiveLiveExplore.com. Building a school for corp escapees @escthecity. Publishing @TalesofIceland. Speaking @TEDx
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

What is one thing most successful people have in common? They get up extra early and make the most of the morning. Here’s why:
Waking up early gives you time to think before the buzz of the day begins. To put it simply, the early morning is “you time” — a time to lay out your priorities for the day and make progress against them, before others are demanding your time and attention. It puts you firmly in control of each day.
Of course it is awfully hard to get out of bed, but that’s exactly why early risers have the competitive advantage over everyone else. They tackle the day while others hit the snooze button.
Here are just a few examples of ultra-successful early risers:
Did you notice another consistent trend among all of these ultra-successful people? Everyone’s morning ritual includes exercise as a key component.
In addition to the overall health and fitness benefits, studies have shown that moderate-intensity exercise for 20+ minutes produces a mental and emotional boost for the following 12 hours! This means that these business leaders are likely more clear-headed, effective, and productive at work as a direct result of their morning workout. The exercise time also allows them to think and problem-solve without interruption, so they hit the ground running once they get into the office. Morning exercise is an incredibly efficient use of time.
In addition to waking up extra early and exercising, here are a few more morning habits to get your day moving in the right direction:
All of this sets you up for success before your “work day” even begins, whatever form that may take for you. Being a morning person isn’t reserved for just C-level execs. Everyone will benefit from implementing these good habits.
Think it’s not possible for you because you need the extra sleep? The experts would say to get to bed earlier the night before to make the early wake-up call tolerable.
These tips and success stories help motivate me to get out of bed when all I want to do is sleep a bit more, and hopefully they also inspire you to make the morning your secret weapon!
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — —
If you enjoyed this post, please hit the “recommend” button below. Thanks!
For more stories like this one, “Follow” me to see my latest posts.
I write about good habits for productivity, health, happiness, & success. Marketing at Clif Bar, formerly Red Bull, Dodgers, Red Sox. Twitter @andrewmerle
Sharing our ideas and experiences
Everyday, I receive emails, LinkedIn smail (spam mail), texts and/or Facebook messages from people looking for resume help. I typically don’t respond to them — not because I don’t want to help but because they’re not listening to me when I tell them that any resume I create is NOT going to get them a job.
And, let me be straight, it’s not because I’m not good at fabricating bullet points for them.
The reason upgrading their resume isn’t going to work is because it’s not a resume that scores you a job. It’s relationships.
Have you ever heard the saying: “It’s who you know?”
It’s the absolute truth.
Today, I’m going to detail how you can land a job, and it does NOT involve me (or you) writing or editing your resume.
What it does involve is learning how to navigate your email inbox and woo your way into hiring managers’ (or their bosses’).

Duh! This is what you’re probably thinking.
It’s not what I’m thinking though since I receive emails from senders with addresses like “popprincess69@aol.com” and “iluvaaron@yahoo.com.”
Alright, alright, those are extreme examples, but they’re not far off, and they’re actually REAL humans — not spam bots.
Here’s my setup tips. Read them. I bet there’s something you forgot!
This is the prettiest email signature solution. Not only is it a better looking option but it is also easy to switch signatures between email accounts.
Yesware reports email opens, link clicks and file attachment downloads. This is valuable because it lets you know if you should follow up with someone or not and when, if you should. It also has a template feature many of you could use. Let’s say you’re applying to jobs, and you’re finding that you’re saying basically the same thing every time you email hiring managers. Write and save a template in Yesware then just personalize it from now on. That could knock off a lot of time for you.
Crystal isn’t kidding when it claims to be the biggest improvement to email since spell check. This email extension creates unique personality profiles for every person with an online presence, prepping you to speak or write in someone else’s natural, communication style. Crystal not only makes recommendations on which words you should use, but it even generates email templates based on the person you’re communicating with.
A LOT of emails are being tracked for clicks and opens. Use Ugly Email, a free gmail extension that tells you when an email is being tracked before you open it. This circumvents problems like opening an email and then not responding or opening the email 75 million times, which makes you look unproductive.
If you want to know other email tools I love check out this article.
According to Mindtools, the average office worker receives around 80 emails each day.
That makes it REALLY EASY for hiring managers to skip over your email, when it includes an error. Your email has an error if it’s:
The perfect email is short, easily scannable and includes a very clear call-to-action (CTA).
If you forget any of my tips, don’t forget this one!!! Make your email easily scannable. That means break up paragraphs into one sentence — two, if you must.
By this I mean utilize bold text, italics, and bullet points. This helps make your email easily scannable. Sometimes I even change important text’s color to red or highlight important sentences in bright yellow.
Send or schedule (if you use Yesware), your emails at optimal times. Think about it for a second. The best time to send a job request/application is most likely not at 1 a.m. on a Saturday night/morning. Monday probably isn’t good either because professionals will be busy playing catch up. I recommend sending between Tuesday and Thursday, in the morning or afternoon, say between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m.
Here are the elements of a damn good email.
Subject LineThe goal of your subject line is to drive the person you want to read your email to, well, open it to read the damn thing. I like to do this by complimenting the receiver in the subject line and letting them know that I want to provide value to them.
See how I did this in the fictitious example above to myself?
I told them I was a HUGE fan then preceded to tell them I wanted to HELP them do something.
Message
A mentor once told me to send 50 emails per week to get what I wanted, and our advisor, said he used to send as many as 300 per week to get generate new business.
Emails are how you get what you want from someone you don’t know, i.e. hiring managers.
Here’s what you got to do.
Yes, 25. That isn’t a lot so I don’t feel bad assigning you that many.
You may say: But, Lauren, there are not 25 jobs posted that I want.
And I’ll say: But, Jimmy, that does not matter at all.
According to ABC, 80 percent of jobs are landed through networking.
Emailing allows you to network with people across the nation, not just those professionals in your city; therefore, if you want a job in NY but live in Idaho, you can simply shoot off an email introducing yourself to someone you admire in New York.
People to send emails to:
This is pretty self-explanatory. I reread my emails nearly five to six times before I hit send… And I still catch errors sometimes. #Embarrassing
I HATE following up because the last thing I ever want to be to someone I want something from is annoying. But guess what?! I do. Because if you don’t ask for what you want then you’ll never get what you want, and sometimes you have to ask for it multiple times.
Like Mark Cuban says, “Every no gets me closer to a yes.”
Too many of you give up too easily.
What if a hiring manager only responded to those who had enough gumption to write a follow up to her lack of response the first time?
It could happen. I’m sure there’s a manager out there that does this although I’m also sure that it’s rare.
Neil Patel recommends the template I took a screenshot of and copied below.
Here’s a few templates from this post on The Muse.
Here’s an example from when I followed up after a hiring manager had me complete an assignment, but then didn’t follow up with me within a week, as he promised.
Basically, just remember keep follow up emails short and to the point and don’t forget to provide alternatives for the receiver. Alternatives could include something like them delegating what you want to someone else. This way you always get what you want — a response.
This is how you get a job, my friends, — by creating relationships with people.
I don’t receive job offers on the reg because I’ve sent this perfectly concocted resume to millions of hiring managers.
Job offers come to me because I’ve invested the time to build a strong, helpful network of influential individuals in my field.
founder, freelanship.com | growth, inbound.org | entrepreneur editor, sitepoint.com
Some really awesome, forward-thinking stuff.
by Tobias van Schneider — First appeared in my personal email list.

We’re always waiting for inspiration to find us. We’re waiting to get inspired to paint this perfect piece of art, to build the next big thing or to come up with this great advertising idea. We’re just sitting there waiting.
I still do it sometimes, like an idiot as if I don’t know better after all these years of chasing inspiration.
The problem with finding the perfect inspiration is that it’s just a romantic dream. Waiting for inspiration to show up and solve my problems is really nothing more than an empty promise.
Inspiration is a little bit like love. Seeking for the perfect love is like seeking for perfect inspiration. The harder you try, the longer it will take. It’s like magic, maybe even luck.
Now you might think that luck is not fair and rather unpredictable because some have more and some have less. For me luck is more like an attitude.
You might not be able to control your own luck or inspiration, but you can definitely enhance it’s chances by putting yourself in positions where luck & inspiration is more likely to happen.
When talking about inspiration, we first need to stop seeking inspiration. This might sound counterproductive at first and appears to involve risk because we often work under pressure, and we don’t have the time to stop thinking about something we actually need to think about.
Let’s just imagine inspiration exists as a random pattern in our life, as in the example I illustrated below. When forcing to find inspiration (see 1) my path is very linear/narrow and the chances are pretty low to get hit by inspiration — It will probably take forever.
If I don’t try to force inspiration to happen, my path appears to be more organic & random (see 2). I might go for a walk, I go to the movies, read a book or just start working. It doesn’t matter what I do, but what happens is that I put myself in situations where I’m more likely to get hit by those little spots of inspiration.
The key is to start doing something, RIGHT NOW! — It’s about to start working immediately even if you don’t feel inspired or know where you are going yet. Inspiration will only hit you once you are already in motion, not while standing still doing nothing.
And as Pablo Picasso already said:
This is an interesting concept because it completely goes against our logic that we first have to be inspired in order to work. But in reality that’s a lie — It’s exactly the other way around.
So the next time you say “I just don’t feel inspired right now” you know how to fix it. Start working right now and create your own inspiration.
Happy SundayTobias
___I’m Tobias, a Product Design Lead at Spotify NYC. Founder of Authentic Weather & Semplice, Advisor & UX at memomi — www.vanschneider.com
Director of Fun & Product Design Lead at Spotify NYC / Founder @semplicelabs — Board of Directors @AIGANYC + Advisor @memorymirror

We love data and we track everything here at .io. So couple of weeks ago we decided to track our team performance in terms of keyboard and mouse activity during the working day.
Our team is small — 1 designer, 2 developers and 2 content editors. And a couple of management guys of course. Our office is at the floor 23, so apart from staring in the window we work a lot here.
We installed simple Chrome plugin on every macbook and collected some statistics within a week with our event tracking system t.onthe.io.
Developers showed pretty unexpected figures. They have less keypresses than editors and managers — around 4k every day.


The most popular key is Command (on Macs) — 20% of all keys. The least popular is Spacebar. They use Tab key 5 times more frequently than all the rest team members together.
Their activity during the day (and night) is the less predictable and the activity graphs have lots of smooth areas and jumps. That’s because they walk around, think a lot and after a “eureka” moment sit down and write tons of code.
Managers are total winners in terms of amount of pressed keys — 3 times more than developers and even 1.5 times more than editors!


They press a key every 3 seconds in average. Emails take a lot.
Managers’ activity during the day is quite stable — they write and receive letters all day long. An average amount of keys pressed during the day is 23k and more. Spammers.
Editors are typing twice as much as developers and make less mistakes. Backspace usage is less than for all the rest team.


And the most popular key is… the space — 10% of all keypresses.
Editors’ activity is not stable but pretty predictable. Activity peaks fall on the beginning of the day — when all the articles are written. For the rest of the day they read them through, replace the words, read again and again, and then post.
Designer is pretty predictable — Command and Backspace are two buttons that he presses 20% of all. He does more mouse moves than developers and content editors together. His mouse travels 1 kilometer every day.

Office manager is the least active, making only 2k keypresses per day. That’s 5 times less than managers. 11% of all used keys is Space.
What’s curious — the least popular keys are Capslock and Right Mouse Button. Somewhere around 0.1% of all keypresses together. It’s time to make some changes to keyboards.
So we have managers who are keypress leaders. Designer who is a mouse movement champion. And editors who are doing 2 times less errors than the team average.
Now we are wondering what we should track next. Ideas?

Bruce Lee wanted one of his students to die.
Then he explained why.
And he’s right. I’ve seen this happen to people in my own life.
My best friend growing up died from it. He just gave up. He stopped.
Every day you can decide: 1% up. Or 1% down. You never notice it from day to day because it’s such a small difference.
Pick one area of your life you love. And improve it 1%.
It’s the most important thing you will do today.
Written by someone being trained by Bruce Lee:
“Bruce had me up to three miles a day, really at a good pace. We’d run the three miles in twenty-one or twenty-tow minutes. Just under eight minutes a mile [Note: when running on his own in 1968, Lee would get his time down to six-and-a-half minutes per mile].
So this morning he said to me “We’re going to go five.”
I said, “Bruce, I can’t go five. I’m a helluva lot older than you are, and I can’t do five.”
He said, “When we get to three, we’ll shift gears and it’s only two more and you’ll do it.”
I said “Okay, hell, I’ll go for it.”
So we get to three, we go into the fourth mile and I’m okay for three or four minutes, and then I really begin to give out.
I’m tired, my heart’s pounding, I can’t go any more and so I say to him, “Bruce if I run any more,” — and we’re still running — “if I run any more I’m liable to have a heart attack and die.”
He said, “Then die.” It made me so mad that I went the full five miles.
Afterward I went to the shower and then I wanted to talk to him about it.
I said, you know, “Why did you say that?”
He said, “Because you might as well be dead. Seriously, if you always put limits on what you can do, physical or anything else, it’ll spread over into the rest of your life. It’ll spread into your work, into your morality, into your entire being. There are no limits. There are plateaus, but you must not stay there, you must go beyond them. If it kills you, it kills you. A man must constantly exceed his level.”
More From James
Latest Podcast: Ep 125: Rich Roll & Julie Piatt: Quit the NonsenseIs it possible to transform your life on the eve of your 40th birthday, and experience meaning, vitality, and purpose like you’ve never before imagined?
Latest Ask Altucher: Ep 335: Q&A DayWhat’s an effective way to deal with complainers? James says help the complainer focus on other things, and if they’re a chronic complainer, then just remove yourself from the conversation. You’ll notice the complaints will slow down.
Recommended Article: The One Learning Technique That Scared The S*** Out of Bruce LeeBruce Lee said, “I don’t fear the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks. I fear the man who practiced one kick 10,000 times.
For some reason, I've turned myself inside out and all my guts have spilled onto my blog. One day I'll run out of stuff but not yet.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
Leaders lately aren’t. Here are their four top mistakes.
Whether it’s the rise of the extreme right in Europe, Donald Trump’s ascent in the US, Canada’s stunning plunge into fringe politics, the world is awash in a new political phenomenon: a tsunami of vocal, angry extremism, where once placid waters calmly shimmered. Not extreme enough for you? In one of the world’s most advanced societies, unemployed kids, of which there are too many, are going to have to go…not to school, college, or even community service…but to boot camp.
WTF?
In this short essay, I want to offer a lens through which to see this phenomenon. A few years ago, there was a huge leadership deficit in the world. No one, it seemed, was steering the ship. And perhaps you thought things couldn’t get worse. But today things are different: there’s not a deficit of leadership anymore. There is a surplus of bad leadership. Too many angry, blind pilots pointing ships…straight into the icebergs. Leadership, it appears, has fallen into a deep abyss. From which it must climb out, if it is to regain its place in the world again.
And before I begin let me note. This isn’t an essay I particularly want to write. But the truth is that there are too few voices speaking too few simple truths about this unsettling — and profoundly self-destructive — phenomenon.
Let us, then, put our prejudices aside, and examine these new leaders. So we may see what they stand for — and whether it is worth believing in. What is striking — and immediately obvious — is that they share four positions in common; and that is what distinguishes them as a phenomenon, a class, a category, a larger movement.
Fatalism. Donald Trump wants to deport even the innocent children of undocumented immigrants — and build a Great Wall of America. David Cameron has literally shut down immigration to the UK. In Australia, refugees (who are innocent of any crime) are detained in offshore prisons where they are allegedly waterboarded. What the neo-demagogues share, above all, is an absurd answer to the great question of social inclusion: none. The evidence, of course, suggests squarely that immigration (among other kinds of inclusion) is a great benefit to society. But the demagogue exploits people’s selfishness in an age of stagnation — why should the immigrant have any, when I suddenly have barely enough?
The demagogue exploits people’s selfishness because his is a world of zero-sum thinking. If I have more, you must have less. Hence, it is “logical”, the demagogues claims to wish everyone ill. Immigrants, the disabled, the poor, the vulnerable — when all these people have more, they are taking bread from your mouth!! That is the central claim of the demagogue, and it is present everywhere in their economic policies — which are simply largely excuses to beggar everyone’s neighbor. Hence, the demagogue proposes no real social policies at all — only cutting society…all the way to zero. Hence, Cameron in the UK is eviscerating the NHS, BBC, and more; Canada and Australia, too, are beginning to dismantle their great public institutions. After all, that is the logical endpoint of beggar-thy-neighbor: there are no public goods worth investing in at all.
But that is not what prosperity is at all: any reasoned understanding of it begins with the notion that if I am to have less for you to have more, then no one is better off in the first place; we have merely changed places. True prosperity is beyond the demagogue’s logic entirely: it is a state where both you and I benefit from one another’s existence, despite what it costs us. That may seem a subtle point. But it is the starting point for the great enterprise known as the social contract — for without a shared prosperity, there is no reason for citizens to bother with one another at all. To simplify: the demagogue tells us that social contracts are impediments in the way of prosperity — not its foundations and arches. And so he reduces the great accomplishments of history to rubble.
There’s a simpler way to put the zero-sum assumption of the demagogue: fatalism. It is a belief that the immigrant, the weak, the vulnerable — these cannot benefit the strong, the sure, those who “belong”; they simply do not have the potential to. It is a fatalistic disbelief in human potential itself. And you can’t be much of a leader if you don’t believe in human potential.
Scapegoating. You will note that the true cause of economic stagnation is not addressed by the demagogue at all. It wasn’t immigrants, the poor, or the vulnerable that caused a financial crisis. So who was it? Duh. It was bankers — who malinvested in toxic assets, and then flogged them, for a double profit, right back to the state, which promptly then had a crisis because it’s balance sheet suddenly went to hell. It’s so painfully stupid I have to say it again: the economy melted down because of badly run banks, not (of all people) immigrants — and frankly, if you believe anything but, you are a rube, a sucker, a mark. You think your plumber somehow flushed ten trillion dollars down the toilet?
Let me put it plainly. To persecute immigrants and the poor for a weak economy instead of bankers is like blaming your pet kitten for terrorism. That is precisely what neo-demagogues are doing when they blame immigrants (and other vulnerable groups) for weak economies: scapegoating them.
Nowhere — in not a single advanced economy — do we see demagogues calling for bankers to be prosecuted and brought to justice for ruining the economy — not a single modern day demagogue has called for it. But they are relentless, and extreme, in their persecution of people that didn’t ruin it. The interesting question is: why? It isn’t just that banks are the demagogue’s friend. Rather, it is because demagogues do not understand how the economy works at all. They equate money with wealth — and so they do not understand that wealth is what prosperity is actually composed of, and money is merely paper that helps us distribute it; therefore, money must be hoarded, concentrated, and denied to those who haven’t “earned” it — instead of distributed widely, precisely so society can continue to prosper. Real leaders don’t scapegoat: they do precisely the opposite — they celebrate (and reward) those who have truly bettered us.
Timidity. You may think that demogagues, angry and loud as they are, are reckless firebrands. But the truth is that they are timid, cowering, panicked things. Let me explain.
Because the demagogue believes that money is wealth, the next plank in his plan for society is to “eliminate the deficit”. But this is a negative real interest rate world. Little could be more mind-bendingly absurd. It’s so illogical I struggle to find a metaphor. Restoring economic health by cutting the deficit in a negative interest rate world is like trying not to have sex in order to reproduce.
Think about it. There are mountains of capital moving around the globe in desperate search of investment opportunities (hence, the super rich stashing money in London and NYC real estate). There has rarely been a better time for governments to invest, and invest with a vengeance, in modern history. Societies should be building gleaming new schools, hospitals, roads, bridges…giving free money to students…raising the salaries of teachers and other public employees…everything and anything under the sun that society so visibly needs.
Let me make the logic crystal clear. If I offered to lend you a million dollars, at a negative interest rate of ten percent a year, for 100 years, would you accept? You’d be one of history’s great fools not to. You’d have to pay me back…zero; in fact, I’d owe you money. You could simply invest a market index, or even just hold cash, and you’d make free money. Your timidity would lead you to miss a life-changing opportunity.
But that is exactly what demagogues don’t want governments to do. They believe, timidly — and have convinced foolish people — that nations are “going broke”; that they cannot “afford to” invest in public goods, like schools, hospitals, roads, or clean air and water. Why? Not just because they are economic illiterates — but because they are devoted to their own ignorance. They fetishize the deficit like a wrathful god to be ritualistically appeased with human sacrifice. But real leaders don’t timidly, fearfully obey empty commandments—they are bold and wise enough to revolt. Especially against hollow gods, whether made of stone or of numbers, in the promise of each life’s possibility to grow and mature.
Dehumanization. It’s possible, of course, for demagoguery to come from either left or right. But what is characteristic of neo-demagogues today is that they are products of the extreme right. Why? Because, in the wake of financial crisis, in the teeth of economic stagnation, people are overwhelmed by anxieties and fears that have left them angry, worried, and confused. How will my children prosper? How will I retire? Who will take care of me in my old age? How will we afford to maintain the lifestyle to which we are accustomed?
The demagogue’s choice is to provide people answers which exploit their prejudices and biases, and prey on their ignorance and foolishness. Demagogues, in short, bring out the worst in people. And that is why they are very effective politicians. They may arouse the passions of people. But they do so in the same that a drug dealer might. They awaken people’s appetites for self-destruction and hate — not for creation, nobility, and greatness.
Let me explain.
The demagogue justifies his claims with a very simple appeal. If we’d exclude the weak, pay off the bills, and punish the undeserving, the demagogue claims, everyone else could have a life worth living. And that life is precisely the same for all the neo-demagogues of meta-modernity. It is a dream of hyperrational individualistic materialism: a McMansion, a fleet of cars, and gadgets for every family. So what’s wrong with that? Nothing.
But there’s not much right with it, either. The simple truth is that is the least a great society should aspire to. More than mere material prosperity, a society that wishes to be truly great must encourage it’s people to be great. Great thinkers, artists, healers, teachers, leaders, creators, dreamers, builders. Not just grinning brain-dead zombie-consumers sucking down the dregs of post-capitalist prosperity left at the bottom of the cup through a broken straw of corrupt institutions and wrecked social contracts. But that is precisely what the neo-demagogues of meta-modernity want us to be.
That is their true gleaming flaw. Not merely that they call forth the worst in us. But that they do not do justice to the best in us. For the best that they want for us is merely the worst in us…not to be great, noble, wondrous people, who do amazing and remarkable things…but merely to be monsters with insatiable appetites. Not beings, who, though born in sin, defiantly ever hold the possibility of grace in our broken hearts.
That is the tragedy of the demagogues. They ask us to hate. But they do not know that we must, if we are to live fully, love. Not merely in the empty technological consumerist sense — a tap, a swipe, a date, and a hangover. But in the true and timeless sense. We must brim over with mercy if we are to know grace. We must overflow with humility if we are to know meaning. We must burst open our selves if we are to know their place in creation. It is not enough for us to be consumers, bullies, predators, smiling monsters denouncing our neighbors, if we are to be the people we were meant to be. We must be dreamers, rebels, renegades, heretics, outlaws. Everything, in short, that the demagogues do not want us to be.
That, of course, is our great challenge. To be the very leaders that a broken, hunted, anxious world is so desperately missing.

UmairNYCAugust 2015

Photo credit.
author, economist, slayer of zombies.
Essays  by Umair Haque

UPDATE: Thanks to a good friend of mine, at the end of this text is the English version.Thank you very much Giovana Angelo.
Todos têm um limite, mesmo os jornalistas e fotojornalistas, e embora seja difícil de chegar a ele, hoje eu cheguei.
E passei dele.
Começo esse texto com dois pedidos de desculpas:
1º — Sei que várias vezes critiquei a postura de alguns fotógrafos que se deixavam levar pelo calor da situação quando deveriam apenas observar e registrar, mas hoje fui eu que me vi nessa situação;
2º — Não irei usar uma linguagem jornalística neste texto. Já que cruzei a fronteira uma vez, vou aproveitar a viagem, então se preparem, não vou segurar a língua.
Pois bem, já sabia que hoje seria um espetáculo bizarro, cheio de coisas que, como diria um grande amigo meu (abraço para você meu caro amigo Américo), fariam um macaco vomitar.
Normalmente eu parto da política de apenas registar fotograficamente os eventos sem interferência nenhuma, sem questionar ou discutir além do necessário para o trabalho, mas acho que todo mundo tem um limite, além do que, já deixei para trás faz tempo a ilusão de que existe o jornalismo imparcial. Aliás, essa foi uma descoberta bacana, porque pude entender que posso me posicionar e ainda assim fazer um trabalho jornalístico decente.
Já no final da tarde, um grupo de membros dos Jornalistas Livres resolveu fazer uma intervenção onde uma bandeira do Brasil era estendida e uma pessoa deitava sobre ela, toda coberta de sangue (ketchup, só para constar) enquanto sua mãe pranteava sua morte. Depois disso, um cartaz era colocado com os dizeres Falta vermelho nessa bandeira. Claro que qualquer pessoa com o mínimo de bom senso teria notado que isso era uma menção à chacina ocorrida no final de semana em Barueri e Osasco, mas como o “sangue” era vermelho, isso foi o suficiente para decretar que aquelas pessoas eram petistas. Sem julgamento, sem chance de defesa, apenas com um júri/juiz/executor, ou melhor dizendo, uma turba de acéfalos que não faziam ideia do que estavam falando.
É claro que não sou ingênuo de achar que essa ação por mais que tenha um fundo crítico e politizado, teve sua parte de provocação, mas até então isso não deveria ser problema já que todos batiam no peito ao dizer que era um protesto pacífico e democrático (precisam urgentemente rever o conceito de democrático) além de sequer terem mencionado “aqueles que não devem ser nominados” (só para não ficar dúvida, estou falando de Dilma, Lula e o PT).
Durante a performance, quando a atriz estava deitada, duas pessoas que são dessa gente de bem resolveram participar da intervenção (#sqn) da forma que esse povo entende por democracia: Uma senhora, na casa dos seus 40 anos, muito bem vestida resolveu pintar a testa da atriz com as tintas que ela carregava. Um outro rapaz, mais eufórico, pegou uma caneca de plástico, também cheia de tinta, e atirou contra ela.
A atriz, como uma boa morta, não se mexia, não reclamava, apenas ficava ali inerte, cumprindo o seu papel e jogando na cara deles uma realidade que praticamente todos ali faziam questão de ignorar.
Quando a atriz se levantou já no encerramento da intervenção, ela ficou ali parada, em pé, com o olhar perdido e ignorando os gritos que a chamavam de bandida, vagabunda, ladrão (sim, eles tem problemas em concordar os gêneros eu acho) e outras coisas.
Não bastasse, mais um manifestante resolveu colar na testa dela um adesivo, numa pífia tentativa de chamar a atenção ou, a probabilidade que mais me assusta, de realmente achar que estava fazendo algo bom, algo correto.
Depois disso, me dirigi ao cidadão que jogou a tinta na atriz e à mulher que havia pintado o rosto dela. Ambos estavam próximos (talvez a gente realmente atraia aquilo que emanamos…) e pedi se podia gravar uma declaração deles sobre o que havia acontecido ali e também sobre o que fizeram.
O cara (vou chamá-lo assim já que nem o nome quis dizer) diz “Não cara, melhor não” e a mulher diz “não quero, não autorizo”. Nessa hora perguntei porque eles tiveram peito de jogar a tinta, mas não tinham a mesma coragem para falar e serem filmados e a resposta foi o primeiro passo além do meu limite.
O cara me chama de canto e fala baixo em meu ouvido que não queria falar porque ele já havia sido filiado a partidos políticos e isso poderia pegar mal para ele. Bizarro não? Jogar tinta em uma pessoa não pega mal, mas dar uma entrevista falando o porque de ter feito isso pega muito mal.
A dama da paulista disse que fez isso porque era uma provocação dos petistas, quando retruquei dizendo que aquele ato não tinha relação com o PT e era uma crítica aos assassinatos do final de semana. Com toda a educação do mundo (e arrogância de um burguês no sentido literal da palavra) ela me disse que “Ali não era lugar pra fazer isso. Se quisessem protestar que fossem fazer isso lá em Osasco e não ali na Paulista”. Com um profundo pesar (pelo tipo de ser humano que ela era) perguntei se a violência na periferia não era uma pauta que merecia ser levada às ruas, mas ela disse que “não, coisa da periferia tem que ser resolvida na periferia” e após proferir essa frase abundante em bondade, democracia e justiça (vale lembrar que virava e mexia se ouvia nos trio elétricos alguém dizendo que eles não estavam lá por se preocuparem com seus próprios umbigos, mas sim por querer o melhor para o país todo. Aham… senta lá Cláudia!) ela encerrou o assunto dizendo “Você não concorda comigo e eu não concordo com você, então não tem porque conversarmos.”. Não sei se só para mim isso soou como você está comigo ou está contra mim.
Saí dali e fui até a esquina onde os atores haviam ido para retomar a intervenção, próximo de um destacamento de policiais.
Novamente foram seguidos por várias pessoas que continuavam com seus gritos de ordem (aqueles que falei antes lembram? Petistas, vagabundos, ladrões, miseráveis e outros. Lembraram?). Nesse momento eu já estava bem frustrado e de saco cheio, mas ainda mantinha a determinação de tentar apenas observar até que novamente escuto um senhor com os seus 60 e tantos anos chamar eles de petistas. Parei e perguntei (acreditem, de forma educada. Pasmem!!!!) se ele sabia que aquilo era uma crítica a chacina que havia acontecido em Osasco e o que ele achava disso.
“Foi muito bom que tenham feito isso. Tinha que matar mesmo.”.
Não dava mais, aí fodeu tudo e a paciência e tolerância foram para o saco. Um outro senhor, da mesma faixa etária, veio falar que essa chacina tinha sido de traficante matando traficante e eu disse que não, com certeza aquilo era trabalho de policiais.
Pronto, acabou a educação. Entre perguntas se eu sabia o que era um inquérito e que os jornais só mentiam, a coisa foi chegando ao ponto em que eu virei “um bosta” e logo depois eu já era a escória e sei lá mais o que. Nessa hora confesso que entrei na pilha dele e fiquei de saco cheio e comecei a discutir.
Errei? Talvez, mas não tenho sangue de barata e até que demorou para ele ferver. Era insano discutir com ele, argumentos desconexos, um ódio cego e sem sentido. Quando ele me xingou a primeira vez eu perguntei se eu o havia ofendido ou se ele me conhecia para afirmar esse tipo de coisa. Disse que eu era um petista e que eu estava ali fotografando de graça. Então eu disse que não, que eu estava fazendo fotos para uma agência de fotografia e ele me pergunta se eu não quero então fotografar de graça um aniversário ou casamento para ele.
Alguém entendeu?
Nessa hora eu já comecei a tirar sarro e dizer que ele devia ir jogar bingo ou sentar na praça para jogar milho para os pombos ao invés de ir lá ficar falando besteira, mas como não sou ruim, também disse para ele maneirar porque naquela idade ele já devia tomar cuidado com a pressão e não ficar tão exaltado (ok, fui irônico sim caso alguém não tenha notado).
Seria engraçado se não fosse trágico você ouvir um senhor de idade (mas lembrem-se, os canalhas também envelhecem) dizer:
— Esse é um protesto pacífico e respeitoso. Seu bosta!!!!!
Se isso é um protesto pacífico e respeitoso, gostaria de saber qual a visão dele de um protesto agressivo e desrespeitoso. Não, pensando bem não quero não.
A essa altura, outros amigos fotógrafos intervieram para tentar acalmar os ânimos e também começaram a ser agredidos verbalmente pelas pessoas que se amontoavam ali.
Os policiais próximos do tumulto fizeram o que passaram o dia todo fazendo: Ficaram de paisagem.
Os gritos cessaram e segundo alguns que estavam ali e afirmaram categoricamente, eu era um petista. Engraçado pensar que eu nem sabia que o era, até porque eu justifiquei meu voto nas últimas eleições (mas votaria na Dilma se tivesse votado).
Hoje senti na pele a tal da polarização que tanto se fala. Ou você é uma coisa ou você é outra e ponto final. Alguns amigos disseram que eu havia vacilado em entrar na pilha do velho (velho no sentido de retrógrado e anacrônico e também da idade), mas chega uma hora que não dá para ouvir tanta besteira e se calar.
Sempre pensei que o trabalho de um fotojornalista é o de mostrar a realidade e provocar mudanças, mas além de disso acho que o principal é não perder a capacidade de se indignar com as injustiças.
Posso ter errado do ponto de vista jornalístico, profissional, porém não me arrependo e faria tudo de novo se fosse necessário.
O Brasil está ferrado como está? Sim, sem dúvida alguma, mas se essas pessoas são a única solução, então infelizmente o país tem um triste futuro pela frente.
E quando eu estava indo embora, cutucaram meu ombro. Uma moça que estava ali e que eu nunca tinha visto. Ela estava ali para encontrar com o namorado e não me conhecia, mas quando me virei para ela, me deu um sorriso e disse:
— Parabéns pela coragem em enfrentar eles pelo que é certo.
Errei? Talvez tenha errado, mas quer saber? Foda-se, não tem preço a consciência tranquila por ter feito o que é certo.
Ou pelo menos o que acredito ser.


The day I was called ‘petista’
Everybody has limits, even the jornalists and photographers, and even though it is hard to reach it, today I did.
And crossed its line.
I will start this text with two apologies:
1st — I know that several times I have criticized the attitudes of some photographers that let themselves be carried away by the heat of the moment when they should only observe and register, but today I was the one who saw myself in that situation;
2nd — I will not use journalistic language in this text. Since I have already crossed the boundries once, I will seize the opportunity, so prepare yourselves, I will not hold my tongue.
Well, I knew today would be a bizarre episode, full of things that as friend of mine would say (nice regards to you my dear friend Americo), would make a monkey throw up.
Usually I adopt a political attitude to only register photographically the events without any interference, no questioning nor interfering beyond necessary for the job, but I think everybody has limits, besides I have already left behind a long time ago the illusion that impartial journalism exist. By the way, this was a nice discovery, because I could understand that I can take a side and still do a good jornalistic job.
(Photo)“The frying pan was made in France and the wooden spoon in Italy, but I bought them with my money. “ said the lady’s companion.
By the afternoon, a Free Journalist ‘s group member decided to perform where a Brazilian flag was extended and a person laid over it, all covered up of blood (ketchup by the way) while her mother mourned her death. After that, a post was hang with the saying ‘Red is missing in this flag’. This is for sure that anyone with a minimum of common sense would have noticed that it was referring to the slaughter happened at the weekend in Barueri and Osasco, but since the ‘blood ‘ was red, that was enough to decree that they were ‘petitas’. With no judgment, no chance of defending, just a jury/judge/ executor, or better saying, a bunch of dumb people that had no idea of what were saying.
(Photo )Performance done by journalists members criticizing the violence in the slums and the murders happened this weekend in Barueri and Osasco.
Of course I am not naive to think that this performance regardless it has a critic and ‘policized’ background, had some teasing, but so far it should not be a problem since everyone said it was a pacific and democratic protest (need urgently to review the concept of democratic) besides they did not mention “the ones that should not be named “ (just so there are no doubts, I am talking about Dilma, Lula, and PT)
During the performance, while the actress was laid down, two people of those good souls decided to join it in a way of their understanding of democracy: a lady in her 40s, very well dressed decided to paint the actress’s forehead with the paints she was carrying. Another guy, more euphoric, got a plastic cup, also full of paint, and threw at her.
The actress, as good dead, did not move, did not complain, just kept herself motionless, doing her job and showing them the reality that most people would rather ignore.
(Photo)Protesters paint and throw paint at the actress during the performance criticizing the violence against the black young people in the slums.
When the actress stood up at the end of the performance, she remained still, just starting and ignoring the screams that called her bandit, hooker, thief and other names.
As it was not enough, another protester decided to put a sticker on her forehead, trying poorly to draw attention or possibly what scares me most, of thinking that he was doing something good, something right.
(Photo)A protestor puts a sticker on the actress forehead during the act criticizing the violence in the slums
After that, I moved towards the gentleman who threw the paint on the actress and also the lady who painted her face and asked if I could record their statement about what happened and also about what they did.
The dude (this is how I will call him since he did not want to tell me his name ) said “no dude, better not “ and the lady said “I don’t want, I don’t authorize it.” Then I asked them why they had the courage to throw the paint, but did not have the same courage to speak and to be recorded, and the answer was the first drop out of my limit control.
The dude calls me quietly and whispers in my ears that he did not want to speak because he had already been part of political parts and this would be frown upon. Weird, isn’t? Throwing paint at someone isn’t frown upon, but giving an interview telling what they had done that is really frown upon.
The lady said she did it because it was a ‘petista’ teasing, then I said that the act did not have to do with PT and that was a critism of the murders that happened in the weekend.
Very politely (and arrogantly) she told me it was not the right place for it. If they wanted to protest they should go to Osasco instead of in Paulista. I felt pity (about the human being she is) and I asked if the violence in the slums should not be taken to the streets, but she said “no, slums issues should be solved in the slums” and after saying this phrase full of kindness, democracy and justice (it is good to remember that from on an on we could hear in the parades someone saying that they were not there because they carried about themselves, but because they want a better country for everyone) she ceased talking by saying “you don’t agree with me, and I don’t with you, so there’s no reason to talk.” I am not sure, but for me it sounded like ‘you are with me or against me.’
(Photo)Selfies and photos with the policemen of ‘tropa de choque’ that posed next to the blinders tank recently bought were common during the whole day.
I left the place and went to the corner where the actors had gone to keep on the intervention, nearby some policemen.
Once again they were followed by several people that kept with their demand screams (the names I told earlier, remember? ‘Petistas’, hooker, thief, miserable, and other names. Remember?) By this time I was frustrated and sick and tired of it, but still kept being determined to only observe until the moment I heard a gentleman who is his 60s calling them ‘petitas’. I stopped and asked (believe me, I was polite) if he knew it was critic to the slaughter that happened in Osasco and what he thought about it.
“It’s very good they did it. They had to kill indeed. “
That was it, then all my patience and tolerance were gone. Another man of the same age came to say that the slaughter was drug dealer killing drug dealer, and I said no, that was the police job for certain.
Done, the politeness was over. Between questions if I knew what was an enquiry and that the newspapers lied, it came to a point in which I was a “fool” and soon I was a trash and God knows what else. Then I confess that I was sick and tired of this and started to argue.
Was I wrong? Maybe, but I am not meek and mild and it took a while to get mad. It was insane arguing with him, disconnect arguments, a blind anger with no sense. When he scold me for the first time I asked if had ofended him or if he knew me to say that kind of thing. He said I was ‘petista’ and that I was photographing for free. I told him I was not, I was taking photos for an agency and then he asks me if want to photograph a birthday or a weeding for free.
Someone could understand it?
Then I started to joke and said he should play bingo or feed the pigeons instead of being there talking nonsense, but since I am not a bad person I also told him he should control himself especially in his age so he doesn’t suffer a heat attack (I was being ironic in case someone did not notice it.)
It would be funny if it was not tragic hearing an old man (but remember the mean people also get old) said:
This is a pacific and respectful protest. You bullshit!
If this is a respectful and pacific protest I would like to know in his point of view what is an agressive and disrespectful one. No, actually I don’t.
(Photo)Protester dressed up as ‘capitain america’ an another asking the American president, Barack Obama, for help.
By this moment some photographers coleagues came by to calm things down and also were scolded by the people around it.
The policemen nearby spend the day doing the same thing: just standing.
The screaming ceased, and according to some people who were there said I was ‘petista’. Funny thinking that I did not know what was it, even though I justified my vote in the last elections (but I would have voted in Dilma if had voted).
Today I felt the polarization so much talked about. You are either one thing or the other, and that is it. Some friends told me I made a mistake of arguing with the old guy. But sometimes it is hard to hear so many foolish things and hold our tongue.
I always thought that a photo jornalistic job is to show the reality and make changes, but besides it I think the main thing is not to loose the capacity of getting angry with the injustice.
I may have been wrong in the professional and journalistic point of view, but I don’t regret it, and would do everything again if needed.
Is Brazil so bad as it is? Yes, no doubts of that, but if those people are the only solution, then unfortunately the country has a sad future ahead.
And when I was leaving, I was poked on the shoulder by a lady who was there and who I have never seen before.She was there to meet with her boyfriend and she did not know me neither, but when I turned to her, she smiled and said:
- Congratulations for your courage facing them for what is right.
Did I made a mistake? Maybe I did, but you know what? I don’t care, there is no price for a peaceful mind for doing the right thing.
Or at least for what I believe it is.
I am a Brazilian photojournalist currently living in Santos, on the southern coast of São Paulo, Brazil.

Dear Periscope community and world,
We’d like to share an exciting update on Periscope’s growth, and provide some insight on how we measure our progress.
On August 2nd, we surpassed 10 million Periscope accounts. We launched Periscope just four months ago, on March 26, 2015. We would like to thank every single one of you for taking the time to use something that we’ve worked so hard to create. It means everything to us.
We’re even more stunned by the burgeoning usage of Periscope. Here’s the graph of our Time Watched since launching. We define Time Watched as the aggregate amount of time that people spend watching live broadcasts on iOS & Android. As of last week, we’re seeing over 40 years of video watched per day.
Time Watched is the metric we care about most, and what we’ll keep you updated on periodically. Here’s why Time Watched matters to us:
Optimizing for DAU/MAU doesn’t properly motivate our team to create a product that people love. Here’s why: if we were motivated to grow DAU, we’d be incentivized to invest in a host of conventional growth hacks, viral mechanics, and marketing to drive up downloads. This direction doesn’t necessarily lead to a better product, or lead to success for Periscopers. We hold ourselves accountable to Time Watched as an organizational measure because it reflects the kernel of our product, and our core values.
We hope this was helpful information to share. Most importantly, we want Periscopers to know and feel that they’re contributing to a growing ecosystem. And we want people to know that the Periscope team is measuring itself in a way that aligns with the value that the community gets from Periscope. We will continue to be transparent about what we think and why, and you should hold us to that. If there are other areas of our product or focus that we should be more transparent about, please tell us!
Thank you
Kayvon, Joe, and the Periscope team
Explore the world in real time through someone else's eyes
The core platform would not be too hard to agree on, as most people under 35 don’t disagree about things which to them are self-evident:
Gay marriage 👏 Climate change 🙀 Women’s bodies are, uh, their own 💃Military intervention for self-defense or protection only, no adventures 👊 Capitalism, duh, hugely pro 🙌 Believers/non-believers both welcome 😇
With these essentials and (any?) others agreed upon, we could spend our time debating — at least within the party — the things that are actually up for debate. It’s like my friend who told me the key to a successful marriage is to make sure you are aligned on kids, money, and sex. You’ll still fight, but you’ll spend your time fighting about “all the small things” because the big things are pre-agreed upon.
So why do this? Why establish a new party?
As of 2015, millennials (18–34) are now the largest group of human beings in the United States. 75. 3 million people. We just passed the boomers in size. And yet nearly all of our elected officials are boomers and none of them are millennials. It’s not surprising then that many millennials refer to the government as not truly representing them, or that we don’t “feel connected” to either of the current two parties. But if millennials are now the largest group of people in the country, and we are now all adults of voting age, isn’t it our job to represent ourselves?
Millennials can viably win seats in Congress now. So why not start by winning a couple seats now? If we are so good at the internet, shouldn’t we get started by using it to secure some of our own representation? And wouldn’t an amazing third party change everything about American politics if it could be a true swing vote? If the Tea Party can become influential, can’t we?
Here is one idea of how to get started:
We raise money for our candidates via crowdfunding. We mostly use YouTube and not TV, and as such we avoid a huge waste of campaign funds. We leverage social channels really well to get the message out, and go around the typical broadcast news infrastructure that invites so much money into politics. We will still need money, of course.
In races where we don’t run, which will of course be the vast majority to start, we make a recommendation to our party on who to vote for. We become influential in every election in the country. We are independent, and we recommend candidates on both sides. We welcome people of all ages to the party. Many people 35 years and above already identify with our values. They hunger for an alternative, and will be intrigued by our view of who to vote for. Our activism will give agency to our entire generation to vote, and if not satisfied by who to vote for, to run.
We are nation of entrepreneurs. If we are disappointed in the current offerings, isn’t it our job to create something that we are excited by? What was that quote about being the change you want to see in the world?
Our spirit animal could be a fox. 🐺
It’s easy to be cynical about American politics. It’s more important not to be. If we are not doing something about it, what is the purpose of our complaining?
If you think the Millennial Party is possibly a good idea, press recommend and hit retweet.
We’ll take your clicks as a vote that we should exist.
#millennialparty
I am @dunn. I love cilantro but understand the people that hate it. Founder and CEO @Bonobos Inc. www.bonobos.com and Founder @redswanventures www.redswan.vc.
Stationed on the West Coast of the United States, flanked by the blue hues of the Pacific Ocean, is a city that’s home to some of the greatest companies in the world. 700 miles south of that is San Francisco.
I moved to San Francisco two years ago to work for a startup called Padlet. I love it here. It’s like being in Hollywood, but with less-good-looking people. You have the celebs, you have the scandals, you have the media frenzy. My friends back home are full of questions:
“Is it fun?”
“You think I should look for a job there?”
“How far is Vegas?”
So, here is my experience. I hope it brings the readers closer to our little valley where we are building the future*.
My day begins with a 30 minute commute to work. I take the subway. The subway system in SF is called the BART, short for Bay Area Rapid* Transit. I love the BART because it is always full of surprises. E.g. yesterday, I was at the train station and bam! the train came on time.
Many drive to work. Driving in SF is like a theme park ride — the cars move bumper to bumper, the terrain is alpine, and the people around you have the temper of 10-year-olds.
Here is a pop-quiz — Which one’s an SF road and which one’s a roller-coaster?
Those with a death wish cycle to work. It is easy to spot a cyclist. If you see a guy with one side of his jeans rolled up to the shin, he is a moron; if you see a guy on a bicycle, he is a cyclist.
My office is in a neighbourhood called SoMa, short for South of Market. Many startup offices are in SoMa. The name is a tribute to the returns that investors in most of these startups will see in the long run.
SoMa is a vibrant area with a variety of establishments like Starbucks, local coffeeshops, grab-and-go coffee kiosks, and coffee trucks. It’s a shame I don’t drink coffee. It’s not that I don’t like the beverage. I just prefer not to consume anything at temperatures that would liquify my alimentary canal.
Why is coffee in SF so hot? Are people welding metal with it? The one time I asked a barista (phrased more politely, of course), I was reproached,
“Good coffee needs to be brewed at 200°F for full flavor.”
Odd! Good bread needs to be baked at 400°F but I don’t see any bakeries selling me searing dough bricks.
My company shares its office with two other companies — Buildzoom and Flexport. Judging from their names, Buildzoom manufactures high precision microscopes and Flexport ships fluorine to dentists in China. We all have a common investor named YC. YC is the venture capital arm of the YMCA. They invest in a lot of companies every year, many that seem outrageous on paper. E.g. they invested in a company called Swapbox, which, I believe, is cloud storage for swingers.
Now, you must be thinking — “Isn’t it stupid to judge a company by its name?” No. It’s not. Most companies in the Bay Area have obvious names:
Our office, like most modern startup offices, has an open floor plan. In an open floor plan, desks are organised like tables in a college cafeteria. However, instead of food and noise, you have computers, food, and noise.
The noise mandates that you wear headphones while working. Be careful, though. Your choice of headphones reveals a lot about your character:
An assorted collection of desks and chairs adorns our office. People reflected on their lack of fitness and concluded that the blame lay squarely on their choice of furniture. So some people have standing desks — desks so high that you have to stand to use them (or as short folks like myself like to call them, any other desks).
Markets are chockablock with these desk+gym hybrids — standing desks, treadmill desks, cycling desks. This is why I feel bullish about my swimming desk idea — a big water tank with an infinity pool and a computer bolted on one side. Noise cancelling scuba masks, snorkels, and fins come as standard equipment.
My favourite mutant furniture, however, is the “balancing ball chair”. This chair has an exercise ball in place of a seat cushion. Let me repeat that: in place of a seat cushion, this chair has, a giant ball. It’s a great way to lose weight*.

Outside of Chobani, you’d be hard pressed to find a place that talks more about culture than Silicon Valley. We want to create an environment where employees are happy, motivated, healthy, and productive.
Since people are happiest in the company of friends and family, we make sure you have work-life balance. This means you can work-from-home; on weekends. Notable exception is Yahoo. They let you home-from-work by allowing you to bring your infant to the office.
Of course, we realize that not everyone has friends. So we let you bring your dog to work. Our office has a dog too. His name is Moses. He’s sensitive to sunlight.
Unlimited vacation policy is another perk at most good companies. Travelling, after all, is an important part of the human experience. All we ask is that you don’t leave at a time when your presence is sacrosanct for the company. It can be hard to judge that at times so here is a handy table to help you decide when you can go on a vacation:
Most startups provide lunch. Given the wide array of dietary preferences people have in SF, it’s a tricky proposition. It is fairly common to have someone who is a vegetarian, a vegan, on gluten-free, on paleo, and on juice detox in an office of 3 people. Allow me to explain these diets:
Of course, we can’t talk about working in SF without actually talking about how we work.
First rule of working in Silicon Valley — keep your emails short. If the recipient finds them rude, he/she needs a lesson in productivity*. Here is a good email:
Ignore the novella length signature; the brevity rule doesn’t apply to it. Put anything there — legalese, a call to save trees, a motivational quote. Not many people know that Twitter started out as an email service for Silicon Valley professionals but didn’t catch on because it allowed way too many characters.
We don’t have meetings; meetings are to startups what kryptonite is to Spiderman — out of place. So we have all-hands*, one-on-ones, stand-ups, and huddles. Same goes for calls — we don’t make phonecalls. We sync-up, touch-base, or simply, connect. Make sure you set up the right one, or you may give people the impression that you are wasting their vocabulary.
The most sacred psalm of the startup-bible, though, is —
This is why our first hire was a lousy mountain climber.
One last thing — the startup life does not stop at work; it affects your personal life too. E.g., if you work at a startup in San Francisco, you are like the guy selling plastic souvenirs at the Eiffel tower. Everyone at the Eiffel tower is selling plastic souvenirs. So you find yourself having the same conversations with similar people. Here is an example:
Alex: I have a startup. We are Yelp for contractors.Ben: I have a startup too. We are contractors for Yelp.[Pause]Together: Business model … yada yada yada Paul Graham … Series A … lorem ipsum Google sucks.
This, in itself, is not a problem; I enjoy these conversations. The problem is that they often render you incapable of any other forms of communication. E.g.:
Girlfriend’s dad: Great weather today.Ben: Yeah. It’s beautiful.[Pause][Longer pause]Ben: So I see you use an iPhone. Android sucks, huh?
Famous investor Marc Andreessen says:
That explains why software is so shitty. Many things in the world — like Kanye, curling, and kale — are hard to digest.
Still, technology is changing the way we live, the way we love, the way we work. And a lot of that technology is being built here in San Francisco.
If this sounds exciting, come on board; Padlet is hiring, and so are a bazillion other startups. If you don’t live here and can’t relocate, don’t worry; many startups hire remotely. (Reddit isn’t anymore, FYI.)
If you are already a part of this world, why did you just waste 8 minutes? Why aren’t you working? Stop procrastinating and go ship stuff!
Founder, Padlet.
Words etc from the wonderful people at Padlet.

It has been nearly a decade since I last worked for you. I was your production assistant. I picked up your lunch. I ran your errands. I even once spilled black coffee on your white rug. In my time with you I rode rollercoasters, wore a Baby Bjorn mounted hidden camera, discovered paparazzi, laughed my ass off, was brought to tears hearing Annie Lennox warm up, and toured a post Katrina New Orleans. In the years that I worked at The Ellen DeGeneres Show I discovered Los Angeles, met my partner of a decade, and came out of the closet to my parents. The impact this time in my life had on who I am need not be underestimated. Through you, I learned the importance of being my most authentic self. I learned if I lived my truth, society will find a way to embrace me. All of me.
My life has changed immensely since I left my job at The Ellen DeGeneres Show. You see, I had a life changing day a little over 3 years ago. A line in the sand, if you will. A moment. I woke up. Fell out of bed. And into the hospital. When I got out, I needed a cane and some eyeglasses to navigate my newly disabled world.
I do not wish chronic illness on my worst frienemy. My illness and my disability left me scarred and traumatized. It wasn’t a graceful process. But amazingly enough, it is probably best thing that’s ever happened to me. Along with my Idiopathic Neuropathy diagnosis came the gift of advocacy. I now have a point of view. A change I wish to see in the world. A deep and insatiable desire to create inclusion in the highly exclusive world of fashion. I call my idea ‘Inclusive Retail’. I live, eat and breathe Inclusive Retail every moment of every day (seriously, just ask my Facebook friends). I do not believe inclusion for ‘other’ bodies will be achieved until ‘other’ bodies are seen as consumers. Who are marketed to. And designed for. Over the weekend, ol’ bossy pants suddenly popped up in my new world. And it’s a bit startling. I’m not so sure how to proceed.
So I’m going to do what I have learned to do with my doctors, and I’m just going to be honest about the discomfort of it. People have recently started asking if I have reached out, asking you to sell an inclusive product in your new ED by Ellen line. And I have said that I had not. Reaching out would force me to look back at a life I no longer recognize as my own. Plus, after a long and ultimately unsuccessful two year pursuit of J. Crew, I didn’t want to be let down yet again. But upon discovering your new model Kayla, a 9 year old with Down syndrome, I can’t help but think… what if?
Do you know how difficult it is for children and adults with Down syndrome to find garments that fit? Would you let me introduce you to two companies; Downs Design Dreams and Runway of Dreams? Would you consider collaborating with them, ultimately creating a beautiful ED by Ellen product for Kayla and her peers? Did you know you could be the first? You could be the first mainstream fashion brand to make a product for someone with a disability. You could be that person.

Downs Design Dreams and Runway of Dreams could help you make a garment for someone with Down syndrome. They are filling the gap created by Gap and other global retailers. Right now, these bodies have no options. The bodies your ED by Ellen line sees as beautiful. The bodies that your ED by Ellen line aims to empower. Features of pants for a Down syndrome body include high back rises, a tapered knee for short femurs, extra room in thighs and bottom, and the most important… sensory & motor skill friendly features (no buttons, zipper or tags, soft stretchy material and a full elastic waistband). Imagine how cute a pair of ED by Ellen joggers for children with Down syndrome could be.
Karen Bowersox, the founder of Downs Designs Dreams created a special feature for her jeans, something so thoughtful that I’d prefer to let her explain:
The way I see it, if you make one product, your influence might urge the next company to make another product. And through this new trend, instead of all the products being made by one brand, every brand could carry one or a few products. Think of the possibilities. Imagine some Levis Wheelchair Jeans. And a cane at J. Crew. And a Beats by Dre hearing aid. And a wheelchair by BMW (I mean, Jeep makes a stroller). The list goes on and on. And the entire trend could be traced back to you and that one product. That you made for your adorable 9 year old model Kayla.
Mindy Scheier of Runway of Dreams thinks it’s great that you’re featuring a model with a disability. But she won’t find it relevant until the insides match the outsides. Runway of Dreams is a non-profit organization that works with mainstream brands and retailers to create adaptable clothing. Imagine a Runway of Dreams for ED by Ellen line where the clothing fits and the child can dress his or herself.
Inclusive Retail feels so obvious to me. Why aren’t products for ‘other’ bodies a natural order of the world? Why would society exclude people who just want to be included? I mean, wasn’t it you that said “I’m a person with compassion. I care passionately about equal rights. I care about human rights”? Please help me right this wrong.
So Ellen, if it is you, if you are the person who will help me bring Inclusive Retail to life, I pre-wrote a Tweet for you. “Dear @elizejackson, Yes. I am that person. #InclusiveRetail”
Thanks and Best,
Liz Jackson, The Girl with the Purple Cane

If you’re not Ellen but you read this letter and agree, will you please click on the little heart button below. Also, will you consider sharing on Facebook and Twitter? I need your help. We ‘others’ need your help. Thank you.
I write about the intersection of disability and style. I love beautiful products.
Share your story. Express yourself. All submissions welcome. thegirlwiththepurplecane [at] gmail

One of the themes we’re exploring at the Next:Economy summit is the way that networks trump traditional forms of corporate organization, and how they are changing traditional ways of managing that organization. Uber and Airbnb are textbook examples of this trend. Uber has ambitious plans to manage hundreds of thousands — eventually even millions — of independent drivers with a small core of employees building a technology platform that manages those workers. Airbnb is on track to have more rooms on offer than large hotel chains, with under a thousand employees.
Esko Kilpi beautifully described the power of networks in an essay on Medium, “The Future of Firms,” reflecting on economist Ronald Coase’s theory of 20th century business organization. He wrote:
Of course, networks have always been a part of business. An automaker is not made up of just its industrial workers and its managers, but also of its network of parts suppliers and auto dealerships and ad agencies. Even its shareholders are a network that supports its capital needs. Similarly, large retailers are aggregation points for a network of suppliers, logistics companies, and other suppliers. Fast food vendors like McDonalds and Subway aggregate a network of franchisees. The entire film and TV industry consists of a small core of full time workers and a large network of temporary on-demand workers. This is also true of publishing and other media companies. My own company, O’Reilly Media, publishes books, puts on events, and delivers online learning with a full-time staff of five hundred and an extended family of tens of thousands of contributors — authors, conference presenters, technology advisers, and other partners.
But the Internet takes the networked firm to a new level. Google, the company that ended up as the prime gateway to the World Wide Web, provides access to a universe of content that it doesn’t own yet has become the largest media company in the world. 13–24 years olds already watch more video on YouTube, much of it user-contributed, than they watch on television. And Amazon just surpassed WalMart as the world’s most valuable retailer by offering virtually unlimited selection, including marketplace items from ordinary individuals and small businesses.
On-demand companies like Uber and Airbnb are only the latest development in an ongoing transformation of business by the Internet. In addition to discussing these latest entrants, we’ll take a look at what we learn from the evolution of Internet e-commerce and content marketplaces. Then we’ll try to tease out some best practices of Internet-era platforms and marketplaces.
Consider the evolution of the retail marketplace as exemplified first by chain stores, and then by Internet retailers like Amazon, which have largely replaced a network of small local businesses that delivered goods through retail storefronts. Cost efficiencies led to lower prices and greater selection, drawing more consumers, which in turn gave more purchasing power to larger retailers, allowing them to lower prices further and to crush rivals in a self-reinforcing cycle. National marketing of these advantages led to the rise of familiar chains.
But the Internet added even more leverage, reducing the need to invest in real estate, reaching customers who were not physically close to prime locations, and building in new habits of customer loyalty and instant gratification. With delivery now same day in many locations, anything you need is only a few clicks away.
Internet retailers like Amazon were also able to offer even larger selections of products, aggregating offerings not just from a carefully chosen network of suppliers, but opening up self-service marketplaces in which anyone can offer products. Years ago, Clay Shirky described the move from “filter, then publish” to “publish, then filter” as one of the key advantages brought by the Internet to publishing, but the lesson applies to virtually every Internet marketplace. It is fundamentally an open-ended network in which filtering and curation (otherwise known as “management”) happens largely after the fact.
But that’s not all. While large physical retailers cut costs by eliminating knowledgeable workers, using lower prices and greater selection to hedge against worse customer service (compare an old time hardware store with a chain like Home Depot or Lowe’s), online retailers did not make these same tradeoffs. Instead of eliminating knowledgeable workers, they replaced them with software.
Even though there are several orders of magnitude more products than in physical stores, you don’t need a salesperson to help you find the right product on Amazon — a search engine helps you find it. You don’t need a salesperson to help you understand which product is the best — Amazon has built software that lets customers rate the products and write reviews to tell you which are best, and then feeds that reputation information into their search engine so that the best products naturally come out on top. You don’t need a cashier to help you check out — software lets you do that yourself.


Request an invitation to the Next:Economy Summit to learn more about the evolution of 21st century business.

One way to think about the new generation of on-demand companies, such as Uber, Lyft, and Airbnb, is that they are networked platforms for physical world services, which are bringing fragmented industries into the 21st century in the same way that ecommerce has transformed retail.
Let’s start by taking a closer look at the industry in which Uber and Lyft operate.
The coordination costs of the taxicab business have generally kept it local. According to the Taxicab, Limousine and ParaTransit Association, the US taxi industry consists of approximately 6,300 companies operating 171,000 taxicabs and other vehicles. More than 80% of these are small companies operating anywhere between one and 50 taxis. Only 6% of these companies have more than 100 taxicabs. Only in the largest of these companies do multiple drivers use the same taxicab, with regular shifts. 85% of taxi and limousine drivers are independent contractors. In many cases, the taxi driver pays a rental fee (typically $120/$130 per day) to the owner of the cab (who in turn pays a dispatch and branding fee to the branded dispatch service) and keeps what he or she makes after paying that daily cost. The total number of cabs is limited by government-granted licenses, sometimes called medallions.
When you as a customer see a branded taxicab, you are seeing the brand not of the medallion owner (who may be a small business of as little as a single cab) but of the dispatch company. Depending on the size of the city, that brand may be sublicensed to dozens or even hundreds of smaller companies. This fragmented industry provides work not just for drivers but for managers, dispatchers, maintenance workers, and bookkeepers. The TLPA estimates that the industry employs a total of 350,000 people, which works out to approximately two jobs per taxicab. Since relatively few taxicabs are “double shifted” (these are often in the largest, densest locations, where it makes sense for the companies to own the cab and hire the driver as a full time employee), that suggests that half of those employed in the industry are in secondary support roles. These are the jobs that are being replaced by the efficient new platforms. Functions like auto maintenance still have to be performed, so those jobs remain. Jobs that are lost to automation are equivalent to the kinds of losses that came to bank tellers and their managers with the introduction of the ATM.
Technology is leading to a fundamental restructuring of the taxi and limousine industry from one of a network of small firms to a network of individuals, replacing many middlemen in the taxi business with software, using the freed up resources to put more drivers on the road.
Uber and Lyft use algorithms, GPS, and smartphone apps to coordinate driver and passenger. The extraordinary soon becomes commonplace, so we forget how our first ride was a magical user experience. That magic can lead us to overlook the fact that, at bottom, Uber and Lyft provide dispatch and branding services much like existing taxi companies, only more efficiently. And like the existing taxi industry, they essentially subcontract the job of transport — except in this case, they subcontract to individuals rather than to smaller businesses, and take a percentage of the revenue rather than charging a daily rental fee for the use of a branded taxicab.
These firms use technology to eliminate the jobs of what used to be an enormous hierarchy of managers (or a hierarchy of individual firms acting as suppliers), replacing them with a relatively flat network managed by algorithms, network-based reputation systems, and marketplace dynamics. These firms also rely on their network of customers to police the quality of their service. Lyft even uses its network of top-rated drivers to onboard new drivers, outsourcing what once was a crucial function of management.
It’s useful to call out some specific features of the new model.

In my initial post, The WTF Economy, I wrote:
It would have lacked the immediate punch, but I could also have written:
The reason: Subway owns no restaurants, while McDonalds owns 20% of its restaurants, with the remaining 80% franchised. (Employment across both owned and franchised restaurants at McDonalds is over 1.9 million.)
In many ways, Uber and Airbnb represent a 21st century update of the franchising model. In franchising, the parent company brands and markets the product, sets standards for producing it, and charges a licensing fee and receives a percentage of revenue from each of its franchisees.
The difference is that technology radically lowers the barriers to being a franchisee. In many ways, you can call the modern trend “the franchise of one.” The smallest unit of franchising in the past was a small business, with all the overhead that implies: real estate, equipment, uniforms, employees (including managers), and so on. Today, the franchise can be a single individual, and that individual can work only part time, so it’s really “the franchise of one or even less!”
Branding and advertising are much less necessary because the app itself becomes a customer habit that delivers business. There are little or no capital requirements, workers can schedule their own time, and turn their own under-utilized personal assets (a car, a house, or other equipment) into business assets. In her book Peers Inc, Robin Chase refers to this as “excess capacity.”
This is exactly the dynamic that Kilpi references when he describes how the radically lower transaction costs of networks give them advantage over traditional firms.
Though the details of the taxi industry differ from the hotel industry, the same dynamic applies to another great success story of the On-demand economy, Airbnb. Like Uber and Lyft, Airbnb uses technology to make excess capacity available in locations that were otherwise extremely poorly served. Even in great cities, hotels are available only in some neighborhoods, and completely unavailable in others. By contrast, Airbnbs can be found anywhere that there is demand.
A small personal anecdote: I recently got married in Fort Tryon Park in New York City, near the Cloisters. The nearest hotel is 1.5 miles away, and the closest “nice” hotel 3.8 miles, yet my fiance and I were able to walk to our wedding site from a beautiful, comfortable Airbnb facing the park and just 5 minutes away. Many of our guests stayed locally as well.
As with Uber and Lyft, we see that the granular nature of supply (the franchise of one, or even less than one) makes it easy for more natural market mechanisms to come into play. People can offer a resource that they already own, testing the market to see if there is demand and at what price. If they are satisfied with the transaction, they can continue to offer that resource. More supply will come on stream to match demand in highly desirable locations.
There are some interesting lessons, though, about the evolution of the supply network. While Airbnb began as a network of properties offered solely by individuals, already 40% of Airbnb properties are now offered by hosts who own more than one property. There are also anecdotal reports that small companies owning multiple cars are starting to be part of the Uber network.
The evolution of Airbnb’s network echoes the evolution of the World Wide Web and the media platform businesses that grew up on it, such as Yahoo, Google, YouTube, and Facebook.
The World Wide Web began as a peer-to-peer network of individuals who were both providing and consuming content. Yet twenty five years on, the World Wide Web is dominated by the media presence of large companies, though there is still plenty of room for individuals, mid-sized companies, and aggregators of smaller companies and individuals. While the platform itself began in decentralized fashion, its growth in complexity led to increasing centralization of power. Everyone started out with an equal chance at visibility, but over time, mechanisms were invented to navigate the complexity: first directories, then search engines.
Eventually, there grew up a rich ecosystem of intermediaries, including, at the top of the food chain, first Yahoo! then Google and their various competitors, but also content aggregators of various sizes and types, such as the Huffington Post and Buzzfeed, as well as various companies, from Search Engine Optimizers to advertising firms like DoubleClick and Aquantive and content delivery firms like Akamai and Fastly, who help other firms optimize their performance in the marketplace.
Later media networks such as YouTube, Facebook, and the Apple App Store bypassed this evolution and began as centralized portals, but even there, you see some of the same elements. In each case, the marketplace was at first supplied by small individual contributors, but eventually, larger players — companies, brands, and superstars — come to dominate.
In addition, the central player begins by feeding its network of suppliers, but eventually begins to compete with it. In its early years, Google provided no content of its own, simply sending customers off to the best independent websites. But over time, more and more types of content are offered directly by Google. Amazon began simply as a marketplace for publishers; eventually, they became a publisher. Over time, as networks reach monopoly or near-monopoly status, they must wrestle with the issue of how to create more value than they capture — how much value to take out of the ecosystem, versus how much they must leave for other players in order for the marketplace to continue to thrive.
I believe we will see some of these same dynamics play out in the new networked platforms for physical world services, such as Uber, Lyft, and Airbnb. Successful individuals build small companies, and some of the small companies turn into big ones. Eventually, existing companies join the platform. By this logic, I expect to see large hotel chains offering rooms on Airbnb, and existing taxi companies affiliating with Uber and Lyft. To optimize their success, these platforms will need to make it possible for many kinds of participants in the marketplace to succeed.

Here are some key lessons for companies wanting to emulate the success of Internet marketplaces like Amazon, Google, Uber, and Airbnb:
Join the discussion. What do you think are the best practices of networked businesses? What principles will drive the success of these businesses in the future? What should they watch out for?
Founder and CEO, O'Reilly Media. Watching the alpha geeks, sharing their stories, helping the future unfold.
How work, business and society face massive, technology-driven change. Curated by Tim O’Reilly, Steven Levy and Lauren Smiley, in conjunction with the Next: Economy Summit coming to San Francisco in November.
A tale of differing visions
So this is it. Here we are. The community is divided and Bitcoin is forking: both the software and, perhaps, the block chain too. The two sides of the split are Bitcoin Core and a slight variant of the same program, called Bitcoin XT. As of August 15th, there is now a full release available.
Such a fork has never happened before. I want to explain things from the perspective of the Bitcoin XT developers: let it not be said there was insufficient communication.
Bitcoin forking is a topic that may interest many people, so this article is meant for a general audience. It doesn’t assume previous knowledge of the debate.
The founding vision for Bitcoin was carefully laid out by Satoshi, and has always been crystal clear. This dispute is about growth. In 2008 he responded to the first question ever asked about Bitcoin’s design with a simple statement:
He was in many ways more blasé about scaling Bitcoin up than any of us have ever been. He planned for Bitcoin to become popular right from the start, and knew that success would change how people used his system. In 2010 he said this:
In 2011 I fleshed out Satoshi’s scaling intuitions with a series of calculations: what if Bitcoin became so popular it replaced VISA completely? The answer was that his plan is credible — you’d never need more than a single computer, even with such a large amount of traffic. I also implemented the mode he talked about, as he left before finishing the work.
Satoshi’s plan brought us all together. It changed the lives of hundreds of thousands of us across the globe. Some of us quit our jobs, others devoted their spare time to the project, still others founded companies and even moved across the world. It’s the idea of ordinary people paying each other via a block chain that created and united this global community.
That’s the vision I signed up for. That’s the vision Gavin Andresen signed up for. That’s the vision so many developers and startup founders and evangelists and users around the world signed up for.
That vision is now in jeopardy. In recent months it’s become clear that a small group of people have a radically different plan for Bitcoin. These people have never really been comfortable with Satoshi’s intentions because they fear success — what if technology never improved, what if people couldn’t run Bitcoin on their home computers any more? Would that not somehow make Bitcoin less peer-to-peer, and more like banking? What if people start to rely on Bitcoin even though it’s imperfect?
So now Satoshi is gone they want to make drastic changes — networks of payment routing hubs, sharp rises in fees, ending support for mobile P2P wallets, giving up on unconfirmed transactions, and many other things that never appeared in any of our project’s founding documents.
The so-called “Lightning network” that is being pushed as an alternative to Satoshi’s design does not exist. The paper describing it was only published earlier this year. If implemented, it would represent a vast departure from the Bitcoin we all know and love. To pick just one difference amongst many, Bitcoin addresses wouldn’t work. What they’d be replaced with has not been worked out (because nobody knows). There are many other surprising gotchas, which I published an article about. It’s deeply unclear that whatever is finally produced would be better than the Bitcoin we have now.
In theory, none of this should be a problem. The Lightning Network builds on top of the block chain but needs only fairly trivial upgrades to it for best functioning. So people who would like to explore this direction are free to do so. If what they built worked better than plain vanilla Bitcoin then the market should prefer payments being made that way, and if so … fair play to them! Bitcoin’s current design is unlikely to be the last word in making payments. It’s reasonable to think that one day it will be outcompeted or augmented by something else.
But the system we have today works. It has an ecosystem, it has developers. It has exchanges and wallets and people buying and selling and ATMs and books and apps and conferences and a large base of people who have learned how it works.
Would people decide to migrate to a radically different system, if given a free choice?
We don’t know, and the people pushing for these things don’t want to let the market decide. This is what’s gone wrong.
A long time ago, Satoshi put in place a temporary kludge: he limited the size of each block to one megabyte. He did this in order to keep the block chain small in the early days, until what we now call SPV wallets were built (‘client only mode’). As seen in the quote above, it was never meant to be permanent and he talked about phasing it out when the time came. In the end it wasn’t needed — I wrote the first SPV implementation in 2011 and with my esteemed colleague Andreas Schildbach, together we built the first and still most popular Android wallet. Since then SPV wallets have been made for every platform. So Satoshi’s reason for the temporary limit has been resolved a long time ago.
As Bitcoin has grown, so have the blocks. Reasonable traffic projections indicate that as Bitcoin spreads via word of mouth, we will reach the limit of the current system some time next year, or by 2017 at the absolute latest. And another bubble or press cycle could push us over the limit before even that. The result might not be pretty.
So it is now time to raise the limit, or remove it entirely. That was always the plan. This is where the problem starts: those who don’t want to see Bitcoin scale up as Satoshi intended have decided to stall the process of doing so. They see a golden, one-time opportunity to forcibly divert Bitcoin from its intended path and onto a wildly different technical trajectory. They don’t know exactly what the alternative design will be, and certainly haven’t built it — but that doesn’t matter. They think that by blocking the blockchain’s growth they can “incentivise” (i.e. force) the Bitcoin community to switch to something different, something more in line with their personal technical tastes.
So far I have not elaborated much on these people’s arguments, or who they are. I thought long and hard about naming names in this article, but in the end it seemed unproductive. Those who care enough to follow this drama already know, and those who don’t wouldn’t recognise the people involved anyway.
Suffice it to say they are a handful of people who either have commit access to the Bitcoin Core source repository, work for people who do, people who have been persuaded by their arguments, and a few others who arrived at similar conclusions on their own.
So let us instead discuss those arguments. There have been many. As each one came up, Gavin and myself have written articles analysing them and rebutting them. Sometimes the answers were common sense, other times they were deeper and required more work, like doing network simulations.
The best repository to learn about these arguments is Gavin’s blog. I wish I could link you to a similar collection of rebuttal’s to Gavin’s writings, but there isn’t one.
To summarise a long and exhausting debate, the objections fall into a few different groups:
There are others: if your favourite objection isn’t listed above, go read Gavin’s blog to find it.
The first point might be true one day — it’s tough to compare Bitcoin to theoretical systems which exist only on paper. But nobody who looked at any alternative designs on the table think they they could be implemented within the 12 months we probably have before the Bitcoin network runs out of capacity (example, see last paragraph, another example) ….. even assuming they were better. It is an example of the Nirvana Fallacy:
The second objection is too vague to answer; there are credible reasons to believe that a full upgrade of every Bitcoin node might take a year, and actually running out of capacity would cause serious disruption. We should really have started before now. There are two people on the bitcoin-development mailing list with professional capacity planning experience and both think the process must start right now. Demanding it be delayed until some unspecified future date is not sound engineering.
The final point is the most troublesome and heated by far. It is based in two assumptions:
It would be great if Bitcoin was so compelling that demand for it was infinite: I could just stop improving my software and wait for the rising price to make me rich. Back here in reality Bitcoin exists in a competitive marketplace. Growth is not a god-given right. Every user we win takes effort, every person persuaded takes time. Bitcoin is currently growing, but only at a gentle pace. I wish I could confidently say the cost of running a full Bitcoin node will go up in future: that would imply our success is outstripping the combined efforts of the entire hardware industry. That industry is astonishing: in 2007 the iPhone launched to the world, it cost $500. Just 7 years later the Forme P9 smartphone launched for $30. It matches every feature the iPhone had and then goes significantly beyond.
With the second assumption, we reach the hard core of this debate: Should Bitcoin grow, even if the network changes its structure as a result?
The founder of the project gave a clear answer to this question — YES
We have been working on this plan ever since. To try and change that answer to “no” not only violates the Bitcoin social contract, but goes against the wishes of many, many people in the Bitcoin community.
Those who really believe that an über-niche currency is better should create an alt coin with a limited size block chain as part of the founding vision. Not try and convert Bitcoin into one by exploiting the casual nature of an old, quick kludge.
Why can this dispute not be resolved in some more civilised manner than an outright split?
Put simply, the decision making process in Bitcoin Core has broken.
In theory, like almost all open source projects, Core has a “maintainer”. The job of a maintainer is to shepherd the project and make decisions about what goes in and what doesn’t. The maintainer is the boss. A good maintainer gathers feedback, weighs arguments and then makes decisions. But in the case of Bitcoin Core the block size debate has been allowed to drag on for years.
The problem is that any change, no matter how obvious, can be nixed entirely if it becomes “controversial”, meaning another person with commit access objects. As there are five committers and many other non-committers who can also make changes “controversial” this is a recipe for deadlock. The fact that the block size was never meant to be permanent has ceased to matter: the fact that removing it is debated, is, by itself, enough to ensure it will not happen. Like a committee with no chairman, the meeting never ends. To quote the committer who has pushed hardest for stasis, “Bitcoin needs a leader like a fish needs a bicycle”.
Compounding this problem is an absolute disinterest in listening to the wider community.
Raising the block size is supported by, amongst others:
This list is far from complete. Many other key players in the ecosystem haven’t commented publicly, but have expressed support to Gavin and myself in private.
So you can see that this isn’t some strange campaign of conquest by Gavin and myself. If we weren’t preparing for this change, others would.
How did those pushing for 1mb blocks respond to all these people?
They didn’t, because they never asked for their views at all. To quote one influential member of the Bitcoin Core community:
Companies represent many of Bitcoin’s most passionate, devoted and technical people. They provide critical infrastructure. Yet the views of the people who build them are considered “misleading to the sense of consensus”.
What about wallet developers? They are the people most exposed to the needs of day to day users.
Never asked. When they spoke up anyway, it made no difference; their views are considered irrelevant.
That isn’t surprising: this group measures the relevance of someone’s opinions by how many commits to Core they have. It’s become clearer and clearer that the “consensus” that’s so often talked about in the Bitcoin Core community really means the views of a tiny handful of people, regardless of what anyone else in the wider community might think, how much work they have done, or how many users their products have.
Put another way, “developer consensus” is marketing, wool pulled over the eyes of Bitcoin users to blind them from the truth: just two or three people acting in concert can break Bitcoin in whatever way they see fit.
Do they even recognise that a large number of critical people disagree? No. Quoting one of the committers again:
This can only be true if you classify vast numbers of the engineers building the Bitcoin ecosystem as “non technical”.
Clearly, there is a serious problem here. Communication has broken down, both sides feel they are vigorously defending decentralisation and the One True Bitcoin Vision. The community is divided.
This leaves one last mechanism for resolving the dispute. We can make a modified version of the software, and put it to a vote of miners via the usual chain fork logic used for upgrades. If a majority upgrade to the new version and produce a larger than 1mb block, the minority would reject it and be put onto a parallel block chain. To get back in sync with the rest of the network they would then have to adopt the fork, clearly resolving the system in favour. If the majority never upgrade, the fork would never happen and the 1mb limit would be hit.
It would seem like all participants should support such a move: clearly, consensus cannot be reached via the usual mechanisms and thus putting it to something resembling a vote should look like a good way to make progress.
Here we come to the last and most fatal source of disagreement.
Of the 5 Bitcoin Core committers, Gavin and Jeff support a fork but the other three appear to believe that any controversial hard fork is unthinkable, madness, reckless, should never ever happen and doing it would seriously harm Bitcoin, perhaps even fatally. If any of them are in favour of resolving via a fork, I haven’t seen them express that anywhere.
We strongly disagree with this assessment. We don’t think the sky will fall if the chain forks. We think people on the small-blocks side of the chain will upgrade and continue on the bigger-blocks side. There will be plenty of time for them to know about the change and prepare. But of course, this has made no difference to the belief of the Bitcoin Core developers who dislike hard forks. They are steadfastly against.
In short, they believe that the only mechanism that Bitcoin has to keep them in check should never be used.
I don’t think they really mean it to come across this way, but it does. Their view is that there shouldn’t be any alternative to their decisions. That anything they object to, for whatever reason, is killed forever … and that Bitcoin is thus their toy to do with as they please.
This state of affairs cannot go on. The Bitcoin Core project has shown it cannot reform and so it must be abandoned.
That is why Bitcoin has forked.
We hope everyone understands.
Open minded reading
Amazon isn’t the only company burning out their employees with unsustainable expectations. Let’s break the cycle.
Update: Want to achieve better work-life balance within your own team? Check out “Less is more: leading your team to better results through work-life balance” on the Asana blog.
— — —
Last week, I spoke to an ambitious group of high school students at SPARC in Berkeley. Several of them asked me about things I wish I had done or learned earlier in life, or regrets I had from earlier in my career. Again and again, I came back to the idea that I wish I had lived my life differently.
I wish I had slept more hours, and exercised regularly. I wish I had made better decisions about what to eat or drink — at times I consumed more soda and energy drinks than water. I wish I had made more time for other experiences that helped me grow incredibly quickly once I gave them a chance.
You might think: but if you had prioritized those things, wouldn’t your contributions have been reduced? Would Facebook have been less successful?
Actually, I believe I would have been more effective: a better leader and a more focused employee. I would have had fewer panic attacks, and acute health problems — like throwing out my back regularly in my early 20s. I would have picked fewer petty fights with my peers in the organization, because I would have been generally more centered and self-reflective. I would have been less frustrated and resentful when things went wrong, and required me to put in even more hours to deal with a local crisis. In short, I would have had more energy and spent it in smarter ways… AND I would have been happier. That’s why this is a true regret for me: I don’t feel like I chose between two worthy outcomes. No, I made a foolish sacrifice on both sides.
This week, the tech industry has been passionately debating a recent New York Times article about Amazon’s intense work culture. Many found the article one-sided, using dramatic anecdotes to caricature a culture built around passion and intensity, while some insiders have risen to publicly defend the company. However, as far as I can tell, most people do not contest that the culture is intense and people do work really hard at Amazon. Fundamentally, this is a familiar part of tech culture: at high performing companies, employees work extremely hard, to an extent that is unsustainable for most people.
But it doesn’t have to be this way.
Many people believe that weekends and the 40-hour workweek are some sort of great compromise between capitalism and hedonism, but that’s not historically accurate. They are actually the carefully considered outcome of profit-maximizing research by Henry Ford in the early part of the 20th century. He discovered that you could actually get more output out of people by having them work fewer days and fewer hours. Since then, other researchers have continued to study this phenomenon, including in more modern industries like game development.
The research is clear: beyond ~40–50 hours per week, the marginal returns from additional work decrease rapidly and quickly become negative. We have also demonstrated that though you can get more output for a few weeks during “crunch time” you still ultimately pay for it later when people inevitably need to recover. If you try to sustain crunch time for longer than that, you are merely creating the illusion of increased velocity. This is true at multiple levels of abstraction: the hours worked per week, the number of consecutive minutes of focus vs. rest time in a given session, and the amount of vacation days you take in a year.
Rest matters.
So it is with deep sadness that I observe the current culture of intensity in the tech industry. My intellectual conclusion is that these companies are both destroying the personal lives of their employees and getting nothing in return. A candidate recently deciding between Asana and another fast growing company told me that the other team starts their dinners at 830pm to encourage people to stay late (he’s starting here in a few weeks). I also hear young developers frequently brag about “48 hour” coding sprints. This kind of attitude not only hurts young workers who are willing to “step up” to the expectation, but facilitates ageism and sexism by indirectly discriminating against people who cannot maintain that kind of schedule.
Why are companies doing this? It must be some combination of 1/ not knowing the research 2/ believing the research is somehow flawed or doesn’t apply to them (they’re wrong) or 3/ understanding that many people see these cultural artifacts as a signal about the intensity and passion of the team. I believe it is a combination of all three factors, and the third one resonates particularly strongly with me. We’ve worked hard to build a culture at Asana where people don’t work too hard, but we sometimes have candidates tell us they are worried that means we don’t move fast enough, or have enough urgency. I’m not sure what I would do if I thought these values were actually in conflict, but fortunately they are not. We get to encourage a healthy work-life balance in the cold, hard pursuit of profit. We are maximizing our velocity and our happiness at the same time.
As an industry, we are falling short of our potential. We could be accomplishing more, and we could be providing a better life for all of the people who work in technology. If you’re going to devote the best years of your life to work, do so intentionally. You can do great things AND live your life well. You can have it all, and science says you should.
Note: I’ve written this from the perspective of the tech industry, since that’s my perspective, but the pattern definitely exists prominently in other industries, and in companies across all industries.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
“The best things we know and love started as tiny things.” — Joel Gascoigne
Buffer’s CEO, Joel, wrote a post not too long ago about the importance of starting small with new projects. He makes some great points about how easy it is to see the finished product of someone else’s hard work and forget about how long it took them to get to that point:
“It’s difficult to understand how the evolutionary process of products and brands contributes and is vital to what they are today.”
Joel goes on to say that success is more likely when we execute on small projects. Start small and let them grow, essentially.
To give us a little insight into just how simple some of the today’s juggernaut web companies were when they started out, I thought it would be fun to do some time traveling in the Wayback Machine. Design can’t tell us everything about what’s happening behind the scenes at a company, but it’s one way to visualize the progress of a product or service over time. Plus, each of these companies’ founders have some useful advice on why they started small and how it helped them grow into the successes they are today.
So let’s take a look at how these major companies evolved from their humble beginnings:

“I’m here to build something for the long-term. Anything else is a distraction.” — Mark Zuckerberg
Zuckerberg’s vision for Facebook is a big one: to make the world more socially connected. Although he started with a small solution to connect college students, Facebook has grown into one of the biggest, most popular social networks alive today, and continues to grow because he’s committed to building out the company over time:
“I know it sounds corny, but I’d love to improve people’s lives, especially socially… Making the world more open is not an overnight thing. It’s a ten-to-fifteen-year thing.”
Today, Facebook is bigger and more complicated than it was to start with, but Zuckerberg stays committed to his vision:
“A lot of founding principles of Facebook are that if people have access to more information and are more connected, it will make the world better; people will have more understanding, more empathy. That’s the guiding principle for me. On hard days, I really just step back, and that’s the thing that keeps me going.”


“When Sergey and I founded Google, we hoped, but did not expect, it would reach its current size and influence. Our intense and enduring interest was to objectively help people find information efficiently.” — Larry Page
Google’s design has remained sparse over the years, even as the company has expanded and added more services like Maps, YouTube, Gmail and Drive. When you hit Google.com today, it’s still clear what one thing Google is focused on: finding information.
Tumblr’s founder David Karp created the service to fill a need he had. Blogging was becoming more popular but it was mainly focused on writing — something Karp rightly assumed that not everyone wanted to do.
“You get that big empty box, and it demands that you come up with like a witty headline that convinces people to click over and care about your post, it demands several paragraphs of nicely formatted HTML with little aligned images, and a real editorial voice, real writing.” — David Karp
Today, Karp attributes Tumblr’s success — with its vision of “more stuff” including visuals like photos and GIFs — to continuing the strong focus of building something his team loves and uses:
“I think something that is still very true of Tumblr today is it is still a product our team builds for ourselves first and foremost and something we’re excited to use every day, and we spend hours every day using. I’d like to believe that not only comes through in the product, but that it’s kept us close to what Tumblr is really about, kept us from straying too far from that, and that I think kept it true to the original vision.”

The YouTube team is committed to testing their assumptions and building based on how the community engages with their product, based on previous experience:
“We had a lot of our own ideas about how the service would evolve. Coming from PayPal and eBay, we saw YouTube as a powerful way to add video to auctions, but we didn’t see anyone using our product that way, so we didn’t add features to support it.” — Chad Hurley
Co-founder Chad Hurley advises other startup founders to test their assumptions and listen to users, rather than jumping into a big product roadmap from the beginning, based soley on your own vision:

Yahoo!, like most of these companies, started out as a very small project to solve a specific problem: the founders had trouble digging up websites they wanted to revisit later, so they started cataloging the web.
“We called it ‘Jerry’s Guide to the World Wide Web.’ Before we knew it, people from all over the world were using this database that we created.” — Jerry Yang
From his experience at Yahoo!, co-founder Jerry Yang suggests being prepared for scaling up your business:


“We innovate by starting with the customer and working backwards. That becomes the touchstone for how we invent.” — Jeff Bezos
Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, insists that putting customers first since the beginning has been — and continues to be — the best competitive advantage Amazon has.
Since Amazon’s humble beginning as an online bookstore, it’s become a huge online retailer, selling almost everything. But even with huge growth, Bezos remains focused on what customers want:
“When [competitors are] in the shower in the morning, they’re thinking about how they’re going to get ahead of one of their top competitors. Here in the shower, we’re thinking about how we are going to invent something on behalf of a customer.”

There are plenty of other examples of starting small. In Joel’s post, he shares the example of Dale Carnegie’s book, How to Win Friends and Influence People, which started out as a short talk and some notes on an index card.
Another example I love is the “email-first startup.” Sunrise is a great example: what started out as a daily email digest is now a full-fledged calendar app for iPhone.
If you liked this post, you might also like The Habits of Successful People: They Have a Growth Mindset and People Don’t Buy Products, They Buy Better Versions of Themselves.
Originally published at blog.bufferapp.com on February 13, 2014.Image credits: Complex, Wayback Machine, Toby Bradbury
Interested in social media tips & strategies that set you up for success?

25 social media strategies and video tips, delivered daily
Buffer helps you share to Twitter, Facebook, Pinterest, LinkedIn & more. We're a team of 30+ spread across the world. We're hiring! http://buffer.com/journey
Sharing our ideas and experiences


Every early stage startup has doubters, naysayers, and skeptics. These people will tell you that you can’t do it, that you shouldn’t do it, that you are wasting your time. They will tell you that your idea is stupid and that you are burning your investor’s money.
Can you blame them? Let’s be honest here, when you first heard of Twitter, could you have guessed that it would be a $20B public company? Or even better, what if two students pitched you on the 17th search engine, when clearly you already knew that Yahoo cornered that market.
Add to this, that as an entrepreneur, you are filled with your own self-doubt. You will question why you left your safe job and risked everything for this idea that no one believes in except for you.
When that time comes, read this. Read this as a reminder that even the billon-dollar unicorns started off as fragile little babies.
To bring this point home, check out these amazing comment threads we found across the web.
On July 15, 2006, Techcrunch published a story about Odeo launching Twitter. The naysayers came out by the hundreds. Here is the headline:

And here are some of the comments. I especially love this first one:
In case you missed it, the commenter insisted on capitalizing NEVER. Classic.
Here’s another, a bit longer.
Although, I will give the commenter credit for claiming Twitter is not focused… which arguably is an accurate assessment even to this day. ;)
One more for good laughs:
That one actually names names (CRV) and ponders if burning money in a big BBQ party would be a better use of their investment.

Founded by an ex-Googler, Instagram actually started as a location-based mobile app. Here is the TechCrunch article (Sept 20, 2010) covering Instagram’s launch:


And here are two comments for your reading pleasure:
Oh man that was a doozy. Can someone please talk to the VCs and make sure they are funding real business models. Thank you.
One more:

Someone is going to make a plugin for cameras that already has filters… yeah they did, it’s called Instagram and it’s a mobile app. Nice one.

I’ve included two TC headlines for Uber. There is enough negative comments to go around and I wanted to give you a taste of how the comments change as the company matures.
Here is the first headline I could find on TechCrunch about UberCab (July 5, 2010) when Ryan Graves was still CEO:

This commenter wants to remind us that Uber’s monopoly is coming to an end (note this comment was made in 2012):

There were a couple other commenters on the above article accusing Uber of being a “fraud” and “complete crap.” They followed up with constructive advice, which is helpful.
Here is another headline, just seven months later:

Check out this beefy comment. We have what seems to be a domain expert:
That commenter walked us through the economics behind the taxi market and why Uber’s valuation is way too high ($60M post). Hold the phones, the taxi busy is very “mom and pop”… can someone call Travis ASAP please.
And one more shorter comment:
Is Uber equivalent to calling a taxi? I wouldn’t know — I’ve never really “called” a taxi but I do use Uber/Lyft almost weekly.


Pinterest launched in March 2010. It closed a round for $10M in mid 2011 and then another larger round for $27M in October, 2011, valuing the company around $200M.

The commenters here aren’t as bearish as they were on the others. Also, TechCrunch was using Facebook commenting system at the time and I suspect this had something to do with it. Here’s a commenter reminding us how “stupid” of an idea Pinterest is and how “gullible” startup VCs are:

Here’s another shorter comment. To this person’s credit, it could be argued that Pinterest is in fact a “sophisticated bookmarking system.” Nevertheless, it’s a good one at that.


So there you have it folks — four awesome startups that got trolled on their launch day. Although we can easily look back and laugh at these comments, there are hundreds of other startups that didn’t have it so easy.
Surely there is a lesson here. What you need to remind yourself of — and what is most important here — is that as long as you follow your passion, trust your gut, and work your ass off, the end will likely justify the means. Ignore the haters and do you. Do you. Follow your heart, follow your passion. Focus on your product and your brand advocates.

Like this post? Click ‘recommend’ below or throw me a tweet at @benhoffman_.
Thank you @danscalco for the help & inspiration on this post.
Learn, Teach, Repeat.
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
I have a warning for you.
Ten years ago, or even five, this warning would have been simple. Back then, when screenwriters got together to bitch (which was often) it was usually about directors for being bullies, or for trying to steal a shared “Screenplay by” credit, or cutting necessary dialogue, or just plain botching things.
But, that’s not the case anymore.
The sands under all of us have shifted. And today, directors — even the arrogant ones — are running scared like everybody else.
When I started writing there were still a few mavericks out there; a few gunslingers who ran studios.
These were people who went with their guts and would make a movie just because they believed in it.
But that’s not the process anymore.
Today, before a studio chair can green-light a movie, that movie must also be blessed by the head of marketing, the head of foreign sales, and the head of home video.
It must be subjected to a process called “running the numbers,” which means that the movie’s cost — or, downside — is compared against its potential value because of its cast and what it might do in foreign markets.
This process takes into account every variable except the variable which actually matters — the one that can't possibly be gauged by any sort of calculus — which is whether or not the movie’s going to be any good.
And yet the process continues.
There are other challenges too. Ones born of progress itself.
It’s axiomatic now that the technology of movie making has never been greater than it is today, but I don't think any of us can honestly say that movies themselves have never been greater.
These things are not unrelated.
Suppose we were going to shoot a scene in a typical room. We can now, if we want to, add elements to that scene to make it more visually arresting.
We could light the ceiling on fire by using CGI.
We could enhance the experience by projecting it in 3-D.
Does any of this have anything to do with story, or character? No.
But, it would look great in the trailer.
That kind of thinking, the idea that dazzling visuals are enough, has led to a certain kind of movie-making laziness that has not been good for anybody.
Worse, it’s made it tougher and tougher to dazzle the audience because they know out there now that we’re making movies with software instead of cameras.
We’re storytellers, which means we have to do better. Sometimes I think we have to rescue the business from the very people who own it.
The good news is, we can.
Inside every one of you is the flame that has always lit the way in this industry, which is originality — that one spark of an idea, that one archetypal character, story, truth, or world that no one’s ever captured before.
Do you remember the movie WALL-E, the brilliant Pixar film?
He’s in a dangerous world and he’s one of thousands who are supposed to clean it up.
But, there’s something special about WALL-E. He finds this little tiny sprig which might one day become a plant. He guards it, and saves it, and preserves it on the chance that it might some day turn into something beautiful.
Well, Hollywood is that dangerous world and you are WALL-E.
That’s your charge now — greatness.
You have to pursue it every single day in everything you do; in your work ethic, in the way you conduct yourself, in who you choose to do business with.
You are now part of the most collaborative medium anywhere in the world and much of your success in it is going to be determined by how well you listen.
I was very fortunate in that regard. As the child of divorced parents, I learned early how to take two warring factions and make them both feel they had been heard.
This works fantastic in meetings.
You’re going to get a lot of notes in your career. And it’ll be your instinct to resent them. But, I’m telling you now to ignore this instinct.
The fact is that most of the notes you get will be smart and thoughtful.
And all of them — even the bad ones — will teach you something about where you failed to articulate something as clearly as you had it in your head or where something just didn’t make it on the page, where something just didn’t land.
But what will mostly define you more than anything else is what projects you say yes to and what projects you say no to.
Here’s a rule of thumb about that.
If someone offers you a job on a project that has real heat, a star attached to it, or some wonderful pedigree, and you find that you’re not waking up every morning thinking about it, if it’s not living inside of you trying to claw its way out, then don’t write it.
And always remember that if you are inspired we will be too.
The best advice I ever heard about writing came from Paddy Chayefsky — he, of Network and The Hospital. He also wrote Marty. (That’s three Oscars.)
Chayefsky’s advice to writers was simple: Don’t think of it as art, think of it as work.
Because when a writer is stuck and he or she calls in another writer for help, that second writer doesn’t say, “What’s the art problem?”
That second writer says, “What’s not working?” And they get under the hood and fix it together.
That’s most of what you’ll do in your career — work, problem solving. Approach it in that way and then at the end of every day, you’ll at least be able to say, “I did my job today.”
If you’re an artist, it’ll come out as art anyway.
The truth is there are millions of variables that will profoundly affect your career. Variables over which you have zero control.
You have no control over the state of the economy or over the health of our industry.
You have no say in whether or not the DVD business flat-lines, or whether or not the market is suddenly ripe for thrillers or superhero movies or — god help us — romantic comedies.
So maximize that variable.
I take my son to his bus stop every morning at 7:30. I’m at my desk working by 8:00. Somebody feeds me at 1:00 and I’m back at my desk by 1:30, working until 6:00.
I don’t surf the web. I don’t gamble online. I don’t go to the local Starbucks for two hours. I don’t try to seek out old girlfriends on Facebook.
I don’t do anything that requires time. I just work.
I do this because there’s a mountaintop that I’m trying to get to and I’m nowhere near it.
I can see it from here. But, the accomplishments of our greatest writers, that’s the Holy Grail for me.
I want to leave a legacy like they did.
I want to spend a lot of time in tuxedos.
The next time the AFI does a list of the 100 greatest movies of all time, I want my name on one of them, at least.
And I want some day in 2032, for someone to cite one of my movies with the same kind of reverence I have for those movies of the ‘70s.
Luck will not get me there, although I will need plenty of it.
The only thing that will get me there is my willingness to write that 15th draft, or proofread it one more time, or be open to notes from someone who’s smarter than I am.
It may be that I’ll get notes from one of you one day. And I trust that they’ll be good ones.
I’ll leave you with one last thought.
At the Writers’ Guild building on Third and Fairfax there’s a library. In that library you can read any screenplay that you’d ever want to read.
Visit that library. It’s your history up on those shelves; the bar that was set for you by the writers that have preceded you.
Their struggles belong to you now. Cherish them. Learn from them. Let them challenge you to keep getting better.
I wish you nothing but the best.
This is an excerpt from Billy Ray’s keynote speech at the 2012 Academy Nicholl Fellowship awards.
We are The Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences and we champion the power of human imagination.
A conversation about the power of movies
“they said ‘how ya gonna keep your job if ya performance has suffered from low morale’ eem the janitor was dyin”
I got fired two days ago.
It was a slight surprise. I knew it was going to happen, but I didn’t expect for it to happen so soon.
Getting fired was embarrassing. I have never been fired before! Being asked to turn in my key and access card, and that they would pack up and mail me my stuff... Having my big boss escort me to my cubicle to make sure I wouldn’t steal any paperclips… I felt like a slug being salted to death while a cruel child smiled down. I had relocated! I had been there over two years! That had to at least count for something, right?
No.
Getting fired was sad. All those Peewee Longway memes saved on my work computer… gone. I’ll never get those back.
Getting fired was frightening. My wife and two daughters rely on me to pay our bills, and I felt like I had failed them. I’m lucky enough that I will receive my salary and benefits through the end of the month, but the prospect of being unemployed with a family induced a mini-crisis. I’ll be able to find a job in a few days, right? Right?! RIGHT!?!? As my breathing normalized and the initial surrealness wore off on the walk to my car, another emotion washed over me.
Getting fired felt good.
I was free. Finally. I should have left this job 8 months ago, but I was a coward, dragging my feet because things were awful but manageable. I sat at a computer all day with no creative outlet, just days full of .xlsx attachments and “Hi Team” email greetings. Did I like what I was doing? Not really. Did it pay well enough to make me compromise myself? Yes. It was a decent job that I sometimes excelled at during those rare occasions when I was engaged. For months, I convinced myself that it would get better. My manager, parents, anyone I talked to said the same thing: “Well, of course you aren’t going to be happy, but you just have to do the work!”
What an absurd concept. The thing I spend a majority of my life devoted to isn’t supposed to bring me an iota of joy? It’s not like having a job you hate makes you appreciate your free time more ( *Very Optimistic Tumblr Teen Voice* The bad makes you appreciate the good!) Having a job that eats away at your very core actually sullies your free time more. You realize how little of it you do have and often forsake it. You dread having to go back. It poisons your psyche. I was miserable from 8:30 am to 6:30 pm five days a week, and when I came home the transition from miserable to happy was slow.
I developed a habit of stopping at the gas station by my house to chug one or two Wicked Redd’s Apple Ales (don’t judge me [it’s the best value at 2 for $5 {and 8% ABV}]) to shake the rust off my personality before I walked through the door. I’m not proud to admit this; it’s pathetic. However, I was a nicer, happier person, which in turn made me a “better” husband and father. Do the ends justify the means?
If my despondency was a broken leg, I used alcohol as an ill-fitting crutch I got for a bargain at a garage sale. I got by, but never tried to fix the real issue.
I met with the vice president the week prior to discuss working remotely — I wanted to move back to Greenville, SC, from Columbia, SC, to be closer to family — and my dissatisfaction with my current roles and career path. It did not go well. For every issue I had there were just no real resolutions either in the short or long term. I got frustrated. When my wife inquired how the meeting went I described it as “two people who were dating having an argument and walking away feeling like they broke up but weren’t sure.” Oh yeah, baby! When that premonition hits!!! >>>>>
What this taught me is that Corporate America gives not one fuck about you. It doesn’t matter how long it’s been there or valuable it is, a cog gets no sympathy or funeral when it falters. It gets replaced. I know the reason I was fired was due to recurring issues regarding lack of communication but they had just given me a 20% raise at the beginning of this year for the hard work I put in during The Holiday Season (our busiest and most lucrative period). They know what I’m capable of, but it’s more about results than morale. I don’t blame them for firing me. My work had suffered, and I had detached. Psych! It’s everyone else’s fault but my own.
I’m not sure what I’ll do next. Do I try to go after another bland SEM job and fall back into the trap? Continue this cycle for the rest of my life? I hope not. Do I try to switch industries? That is certainly an option. Or do I dare to take a risk and sacrifice a bit of money for a bit of fulfillment? That sounds good in theory… but who knows. Maybe I can make something crazy work.
My buddy shared this misquotation with me by Thoreau at lunch hours before I got fired (the quote itself isn’t actually by Thoreau at all, and he really only said the first half of it): “Most men lead lives of quiet desperation and go to the grave with the song still in them.” Even though it’s a bastardized Frankenstein mash-up of a Thoreau sentence and an Oliver Wendell Holmes sentence… it actually has more impact that way. It helped me. Perchance it helps one of you out there.
In the meantime, I’ve got 4 weeks and a considerable amount of time to devote to churning out content. I no longer have any excuses to not send out pitches and finish aging drafts. The amount of Fire Tweets™ I can get off now that I don’t have to respond to client needs is going to make you vomit in your own lap.
Still, I am looking for a job so if you are a benevolent Internet Person with real world hiring power, here’s my very cute LinkedIn profile. Hit me up. Let’s build. Though, I suppose if you are, and you read this… my chances aren’t very strong.
Just trying to have fun on the Internet. Surreally oucheah. #TeamGuddaGudda

Death is always a surprise. No one expects it. Not even terminal patients think they are going to die in a day or two. In a week, maybe. But only when this particular week is the next week.
We are never ready. It is never the right time. By the time it comes, you will not have done all the things that we wanted to. The end always comes as a surprise, and it’s a tearful moment for widows and a bore for the children who don’t really understand what a funeral is (thank God).
It was no different with my father. In fact, his death was even more unexpected. He was gone at age 27. The same age that claimed the lives of several famous musicians. He was young. Way too young. My father was not a musician and neither a famous person. Cancer doesn’t pick its victims. He was gone when I was young, and I learned what a funeral was because of him. I was 8 and half, old enough to miss him for a lifetime. Had he died before, I wouldn’t have memories. I would feel no pain. But I wouldn’t have a father in my life. And I had a father.
I had a father who was both firm and fun. Someone who would tell a joke before grounding me. That way, I wouldn’t feel so bad. Someone who kissed me on the forehead before I went to sleep. A habit which I passed on to my children. Someone who forced me to support the same football team he supported, and who explained things better than my mother. Do you know what I mean? A father like that is someone to be missed.
He never told me he was going to die. Even when he was lying on a hospital bed with tubes all over him, he didn’t say a word. My father made plans for the next year even though he knew he wouldn’t be around in the next month. Next year, we would go fishing, we would travel, we would visit places we’ve never been. Next year would be an amazing year. We lived the same dream.
I believe — actually I’m sure — he thought this should bring luck. He was a superstitious man. Thinking about the future was the way he found to keep hope alive. The bastard made me laugh until the very end. He knew about it. He didn’t tell me. He didn’t see me crying.
And suddenly, the next year was over before it even started.
My mother picked me up at school and we went to the hospital. The doctor told the news with all the sensitivity that doctors lose over the years. My mother cried. She did have a tiny bit of hope. As I said before, everyone does. I felt the blow. What does it mean? Wasn’t it just a regular disease, the kind of disease doctors heal with a shot? I hated you, dad. I felt betrayed. I screamed with anger in the hospital, until I realized my father was not around to ground me. I cried.
Then, my father was once again a father to me. With a shoebox under her arm, a nurse came by to comfort me. The box was full of sealed envelopes, with sentences where the address should be. I couldn’t understand exactly what was going on. The nurse then handed me a letter. The only letter that was out of the box.
“Your dad asked me to give you this letter. He spent the whole week writing these, and he wants you read it. Be strong.” the nurse said, holding me.
The envelope read WHEN I’M GONE. I opened it.

Son,
If you’re reading this, I’m dead. I’m sorry. I knew I was going to die.
I didn’t want to tell you what was going to happen, I didn’t want to see you crying. Well, it looks like I’ve made it. I think that a man who’s about to die has the right to act a little bit selfish.
Well, as you can see, I still have a lot to teach you. After all, you don’t know crap about anything. So I wrote these letters for you. You must not open them before the right moment, OK? This is our deal.
I love you. Take care of your mom. You’re the man of the house now.
Love, dad.

PS: I didn’t write letters to your mom. She’s got my car.

He made me stop crying with his bad handwriting. Printing was not easy back then. His ugly writing, which I barely understood, made me feel calm. It made me smile. That’s how my father did things. Like the joke before the grounding.
That box became the most important thing in the world for me. I told my mother not to open it. Those letters were mine and no one else could read them. I knew all the life moments written on the envelopes by heart. But it took a while for these moments to happen. And I forgot about it.
Seven years later, after we moved to a new place, I had no idea where I put the box. I couldn’t remember it. And when we don’t remember something, we usually don’t care about it. If something goes lost in your memory, It doesn’t mean you lost it. It simply doesn’t exist anymore. It’s like change in the pockets of your trousers.
And so it happened. My teenage years and my mother’s new boyfriend triggered what my father had anticipated a long time before. My mother had several boyfriends, and I always understood it. She never married again. I don’t know why, but I like to believe that my father had been the love of her life. This boyfriend, however, was worthless. I thought she was humiliating herself by dating him. He had no respect for her. She deserved something a lot better than a guy she met at a bar.
I still remember the slap she gave me after I pronounced the word “bar”. I’ll admit that I deserved it. I learned that over the years. At the time, when my skin was still burning from the slap, I remembered the box and the letters. I remembered a specific letter, which read “WHEN YOU HAVE THE WORST FIGHT EVER WITH YOUR MOM”.
I ransacked my bedroom looking for it, which earned me another slap in the face. I found the box inside a suitcase lying on top of the wardrobe. The limbo. I looked through the letters, and realized that I had forgotten to open WHEN YOU HAVE YOUR FIRST KISS. I hated myself for doing that, and I decided that would be the next letter I’d open. WHEN YOU LOSE YOUR VIRGINITY came right next in the pack, a letter I was hoping to open really soon. Eventually I found what I was looking for.

Now apologize to her.
I don’t know why you’re fighting and I don’t know who’s right. But I know your mother. So a humble apology is the best way to get over this. I’m talking about a down-on-your-knees apology.
She’s your mother, kid. She loves you more than anything in this world. Do you know that she went through natural birth because someone told her that it would be the best for you? Have you ever seen a woman giving birth? Do you need a bigger proof of love than that?
Apologize. She’ll forgive you.
Love, dad.

My father was not a great writer, he was just a bank clerk. But his words had a great impact on me. They were words that carried more wisdom than all of my 15 years of age at the time. (That wasn’t very hard to achieve, though).
I rushed to my mother’s room and opened the door. I was crying when she turned her head to look me in the eyes. She was also crying. I don’t remember what she yelled at me. Probably something like “What do you want?” What I do remember is that I walked towards her holding the letter my father wrote. I held her in my arms, while my hands crumpled the old paper. She hugged me, and we both stood in silence.
My father’s letter made her laugh a few minutes later. We made peace and talked a little about him. She told me about some of his most eccentric habits, such as eating salami with strawberries. Somehow, I felt he was sitting right next to us. Me, my mother and a piece of my father, a piece he left for us, on a piece of paper. It felt good.
It didn’t take long before I read WHEN YOU LOSE YOUR VIRGINITY

Congratulations, son.
Don’t worry, it gets better with time. It always sucks the first time. Mine happened with an ugly woman…who was also a prostitute.
My biggest fear is that you’d ask your mother what virginity is after reading what’s on the letter. Or even worse, reading what I just wrote without knowing what jerking off is (you know what it is, right?). But that’s none of my business.
Love, dad.

My father followed me through my entire life. He was with me, even though he was not near me. His words did what no one else could: they gave me strength to overcome countless challenging moments in my life. He would always find a way to put a smile on my face when things looked grim, or clear my mind during those angry moments.
WHEN YOU GET MARRIED made me feel very emotional. But not so much as WHEN YOU BECOME A FATHER.

Now you’ll understand what real love is, son. You’ll realize how much you love her, but real love is something you’ll feel for this little thing over there. I don’t know if it’s a boy or a girl. I’m just a corpse, I’m not a fortune teller.
Have fun. It’s a great thing. Time is gonna fly now, so make sure you’ll be around. Never miss a moment, they never come back. Change diapers, bathe the baby, be a role model to this child. I think you have what it takes to be an amazing father, just like me.

The most painful letter I read in my entire life was also the shortest letter my father wrote. While he wrote those four words, I believe he suffered just as much as I did living through that moment. It took a while, but eventually I had to open WHEN YOUR MOTHER IS GONE.

She is mine now.

A joke. A sad clown hiding his sadness with a smile on his makeup. It was the only letter that didn’t make me smile, but I could see the reason.
I always kept the deal I had made with my father. I never read letters before their time. With the exception of WHEN YOU REALIZE YOU’RE GAY. Since I never thought I’d have to open this one, I decided to read it. It was one of the funniest letters, by the way.

What can I say? I’m glad I’m dead.
Now, all joking aside, being half-dead made me realize that we care too much about things that don’t matter much. Do you think that changes anything, son?
Don’t be silly. Be happy.

I would always wait for the next moment, the next letter. The next lesson my father would teach me. It’s amazing what a 27 year old man can teach to an 85 year old senior like me.
Now that I am lying on a hospital bed, with tubes in my nose and my throat thanks to this damn cancer, I run my fingers on the faded paper of the only letter I didn’t open. The sentence WHEN YOUR TIME COMES is barely visible on the envelope.
I don’t want to open it. I’m scared. I don’t want to believe that my time is near. It’s a matter of hope, you know? No one believes they’re gonna die.
I take a deep breath, opening the envelope.

Hello, son. I hope you’re an old man now.
You know, this letter was the easiest to write, and the first I wrote. It was the letter that set me free from the pain of losing you. I think your mind becomes clearer when you’re this close to the end. It’s easier to talk about it.
In my last days here I thought about the life I had. I had a brief life, but a very happy one. I was your father and the husband of your mother. What else could I ask for? It gave me peace of mind. Now you do the same.
My advice for you: you don’t have to be afraid
PS: I miss you
Just figuring the best way to be you.
Hi! Today seems like a good day to answer some frequently asked questions.
Q: Are you marking any significant anniversaries today?
A: Yes, yes I am! Today is the second anniversary of Steve’s death.
Q: Who is Steve?
A: Steve was my husband uh DOI.
Q: Urm, now I feel bad for not knowing that.
A: It’s fine. At the two year point I find myself having to make more and more choices about whether or not I immediately blurt out HEYDIDYOUKNOWI’MAWIDOWTHAT’SMYFUNFACT!!!!!!! People in my life are less likely to have been around then and more likely to need to be briefed on this backstory. This is extremely annoying because after two years, I still don’t have a better way to relate this information than all caps-no spaces shouting.
But beneath that, it’s actually a super awesome thing, because it means that my world has gotten so much bigger in these two years. I’ve met a lot of people, and done a lot of things that I maybe only mildly imagined doing before.
Q: Dude, that sort of makes it sound like you’re glad Steve died.
A: I’m not, and that’s kind of a dick thing to say.
Q: I’M SORRY, I’M SORRY, I’M SORRY!
A: Ha ha, SIKE! I’m just fucking with you. I’m not glad Steve died, not even a little. He has missed SO MUCH COOL SHIT. He missed the opening with Cuba, which he would have been really stoked about. He’s missing an equality revolution in spaces around gender and sexual identity, race, police power, capital, and class. He’s missing whatever they’re doing with Hine over at Eastern Market. He’s missing our cat Claudia’s turbulent adolescence. He’s missing BERNIE SANDERS ELIZABETH WARRREN AND LAWRENCE LESSIG ‘NUFF SAID.
Also, I’m missing him. Obviously. A lot. BUT: I have a cousin who’s also a widow, and she told my sister that she’s not sure if she’d bring her husband back. Which sounds TOTALLY CRAZY to other people, BUT: When you experience a loss like this, you get to see a really wild new amount of life. Suddenly the range of the type of sad you can feel, to the type of happy you can feel, is busted open. The spectrum from happy to sad isn’t a foot wide anymore — it’s as far as your arms can stretch and then to the edges of the room and then up the block and over into the next neighborhood.
So I am not happy that Steve died. But I am happy a lot of the time, which I didn’t really anticipate on this day two years ago.
Q: What happened on this day two years ago?
A: Good question! While many people know that I am a widow, probably not a ton know what went down. Pretty much no one knows exactly what went down, because I don’t even know what happened.
What I do know is that for a couple of weeks, Steve had what we thought was a summer cold. Some coughing, some sneezing. Then he started a new job, and felt like that stress was compounding the illness — but it didn’t occur to either of us that this was a thing that was more than just something passing. He certainly didn’t think it was worth taking a sick day during his first week of work.
That Friday he came home from work REALLY REALLY sick. He’d barely been able to drive. I made him get up off the couch and go to an urgent care. The doctor there prescribed him an antibiotic and said “it’s either the flu or it’s not, so this will either work or it won’t.” We went to CVS and got the scrip filled right as they were closing. I had to pull a cry face to get them to fill it, and when I got back to the car I was pretty proud of myself for badgering them into doing it — I told Steve that “bitches get shit done.” Tina Fey went on to steal this line from me. (Right? I’m pretty sure that’s how this went down, but my memory isn’t great.)
Steve didn’t sleep very well that night. Around 5 a.m. he couldn’t sleep, so we woke up and watched some 30 Rock together. (The degree to which Tina Fey figures into this story is only being revealed to me now, two years later.) I went back to sleep. Around 9 a.m. I made my way up to Eastern Market to get groceries, and when I got back, Steve came down the stairs, carrying a bunch of his sick dude things — probably some Kleenexes, his thermometer, a seltzer can. I joked about him doing a Rachael Ray carry. Then he started coughing.
I don’t remember the sequence of events very well. He was sitting on the couch at one point and I encouraged him to cough it up, whatever it was. At one point he went into the kitchen and looked out the glass door to the patio, and said “Oh fuck.”
He started coughing up blood. I went to get him a bowl to cough into, and then said “that’s it, I’m calling 911.” And then he collapsed onto his knees, and fell on the ground.
The 911 operator wasn’t super helpful. I kept asking if I should do CPR and she kept asking if he was responsive, if he was breathing. I was surprised by how hard it was to tell. At one point I pulled on his ear to see if he would respond. I turned him on his side and tried to clear his airway. I cajoled the 911 operator, but weirdly, in the moment, I was really focused on being polite. Like, using a ton of please and thank you, as if that would make the fire truck get up Florida Avenue faster. Finally, after a couple of minutes, I heard the sirens and the operator said to me “well, let me just make sure that’s for you.” Because, Welcome to Washington, D.C., District Slogan: Those Sirens Might Not Be For You.
The EMTs cut off his shirt and intubated him, but they didn’t shock him. They used a machine to tell them whether or not to do it, and the machine said “don’t.” I don’t know if it was “don’t bother” or “you don’t need to.” I don’t know if they knew this wasn’t going to end well or not. They asked me how old he was, which I assume was to gauge whether to keep working or not.
Once we were in the ambulance, I asked where we were going and one of the EMTs just sort of nodded “no” to me, and indicated I should hold on. It felt like we sat there for a long time, trying to figure out what was happening. I struggled to call my parents with my cellphone — which was, ironically a recurring nightmare for me. That something was happening to Steve and I’d have to dial 911 and I wouldn’t be able to unlock my phone or dial the right number. Eventually I got my dad, who was in North Carolina, and he sent my sister over, who luckily was already down in the city helping a friend move.
Then I had to call Steve’s parents, which was horrible. Steve’s mom was excited to hear from me, since on their end, it was just a normal Saturday morning. And I had to say, no, turn down, your son’s in the back of an ambulance and the EMT just gave me a “no” nod.
Eventually we took off for Howard University Hospital, which was the closest ER. They took me into a tiny little room that wasn’t square, so all of the furniture was crammed in at weird angles. A chaplain came in and said some very anatomically specific prayers, which even as they were cutting Steve open and trying to resuscitate his heart directly, I thought was funny. My sister Sarah showed up, and they called a Catholic chaplain so he could give Steve last rites. I don’t know how the last rites went, but in terms of dealing with the non-dying, that guy was fucking terrible. I wish I could remember his name so I could pan him on Yelp.
Doctors would come in pretty frequently to update me, but only one or two of those times were they hopeful. Apparently his heart caught a couple of times, but it never stayed working. When the doctor came in to tell me that they’d declared a time of death, I made him tell it to Steve’s parents on the phone.
Sarah and I saw him at least twice, once while they were still working on him, and once after they’d cleaned him up. As they led me out of the ER, I told the nurse that I was conflicted about whether or not I should take a photo of his body. She told me I’d see him again, at the funeral, and that I should just focus on sleeping and eating. And then I said “I can’t believe it, he was such a good husband.”
And she said, “Yeah, but he did a shitty thing today.”
And that was the first time I laughed after Steve died.
Ultimately what seems to have happened is that an infection developed in his heart. This is probably related to the surgery he’d had around Christmas, to repair an aneurysm in a valve in his heart. I don’t have better clarity than this, and to some extent, the facts I did dig up, I’ve forgotten. It’s impossible to overstate what a hit your memory takes when you lose someone. It’s also impossible to overstate what a bureaucratic clusterfuck it is. GUYS, I CAN’T STRESS THIS ENOUGH: IF YOU SHARE A PHONE PLAN WITH SOMEONE, MAKE SURE EVERYONE’S AN AUTHORIZED USER.
Q: Um damn, I’m like, a little overwhelmed now.
A: Yeah, me too. I’ve been that way for two years. So if you sent me an email and I didn’t respond to it, that’s what happened. I couldn’t respond to your query about a story pitch because my husband coughed to death.
Q: So how are you doing in general?
A: I mean, like I keep saying, it’s fine. I realized today that I’d never much thought about what would happen after two years. After one year, I thought I might try to date (and in fact I tried earlier than that, and it was COMICALLY BAD). In year two I thought I might be in a good enough head space to make a career transition (also: fail).
But now, with no more map — with truly no expectation that getting this far was a real possibility, I feel like I’m starting to be strong enough to do the work to make those sorts of things happen. I have the beginnings of a plan and a little bit of vision about how to pursue the kind of creative community I want to be part of, and the resources to do that, even if it doesn’t make any money. Even though it’s frightening, I feel like I’m getting closer to being able to hand someone my soppy bruised tomato of a heart. If they cup their hands and treat it with gentle little kitten paws, I think I might be ok.
One thing is for sure — I used to fucking HATE IT when people asked me, with that welling sincerity in their eyes, “but how ARE you?” I probably don’t actually hate it any less, but it happens less now.
Q: What have you learned over the past two years?
A: Hoo boy. HOO BOY. HUUUUUOOOOOOOHHHHHHH BOOOOOOOOOY.
Q: It sort of seems like you’re stalling, tbh.
A: Busted. I think about that question a lot. I would love to unequivocally be like “I am so much more empathetic now, and I have grand insights into the universe!”
But that’s not really the case. I haven’t really had a magnificent realization about the necessity of doing what you love, or cutting the bullshit. For those of you who don’t know me, bullshit is my number one stock-in-trade. If I have had anything like a satori, I haven’t acted on it.
Probably the biggest finding of the past two years for me is that being comfortable being uncomfortable is a very effective way to be a human.
I am constantly trying to teach myself to watch my feelings as they pass through me, rather than chasing them away with Manhattans or Ambien or Netflix. I often fail at this. I am trying harder to engage with people as they are — not being afraid of strangers, asking better questions, really listening to the answers, not being afraid to go to a second location, being less judgmental.
Basically, I’m trying to have an open heart. I’ve learned that it’s really hard to do, but I think it’s probably the Step 1 of any attempt to really be alive, following something like this.
Q: I’ve noticed that throughout this FAQ you’ve used two spaces after a period.
A: Yeah, I’m not a fucking ANIMAL.
All my love,
Rachel
Producer @morningedition for @NPRNew rachelmendlward.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences
We’re on a journey together, you and me. We’ve come a long way, but design for the web is still in its adolescence. In the early aughts we learned to build websites without tables, then we learned to use data to make decisions. Emotion never played a role in driving page views, purchases or video plays. We just needed to get people from point A to point B. People live their entire lives online now, we’re embarking on a new frontier as designers; we’re designing frameworks for people to exist online — a lot like they do offline.
I first started to notice the disconnect between design and how people actually live after my mom died. Every Mother’s Day my inbox filled with messages suggesting gifts for my dead mom. It used to sting, especially when I worked at a greeting card company and all 10 of my test accounts would be bombarded with reminders she was gone. I felt utterly alone in those moments, but somewhere a marketer was watching open rates and conversions go up and to the right. They weren’t thinking about me, and it’s not personal, they’re making something for the majority of people — people whose moms don’t happen to be dead. Almost a decade later I’m pretty used to it, but I know even the most benign design can be loaded with risk.
When I worked in travel we ran the risk of sending people promotions based on trips they had booked for funerals. When I worked in insurance people most commonly accessed their policy documents after experiencing an accident. In one user test a woman was shown her credit score in an effort to provide more helpful context about how her auto policy rate was calculated. Confronted with this number she broke down in tears, the score triggered memories of a terrible hospitalization that had caused her family financial crisis. Even filing your taxes can be anxiety inducing if you’re down to the wire and can’t make sense of the software. People completing seemingly straightforward tasks do so in a variety of contexts and life circumstances. Humanity can be sad, complicated and messy. We don’t stop being human when we go online.Sometimes even when you’re trying to make something with the best intentions, something can go terribly wrong. Sometimes the very tools you create to protect people cause harm. What can we do?
For years designers have approached software as though it were neutral: here’s a set of options, now complete a task. In reality, people interact with software like it’s a human. As designers, we can shift our approach to thinking about how people might feel using our products much like we would think about having a conversation with another person. The ability to handle relationships and be aware of emotions is called emotional intelligence, and it’s what’s often missing in software design today.
Emotional intelligence is defined with five characteristics:

The difficult thing about “know thyself” as it applies to software, is that software doesn’t have feelings. Ultimately what’s expressed to a person using software is either explicit from a designer when we have opinions and try to persuade, or implicitly from how the interaction makes the person feel.For example, on Facebook, we want to be respectful guardians of people’s data, so in ad settings we want people to declare intent about how they want to be advertised to. This is in contrast to presenting an array of every possible option which a person may never take action on. We ask how you want to see ads: “Do you want to see ads based on your behavior?” This is how we designed empowerment: we gave people the tools to make an informed choice, by not muddying the message with all of the more granular options within that choice.
It’s easy for designers to be aware of our opinions and design interactions that support the outcomes we want. Being aware of how non-choices affect an experience is much more challenging. Emotions spread. Humans mirror. If a people perceive an interface as expressing an emotion, they are likely to also feel that emotion. Whether designers intend to or not, we’re building relationships. Imagine the relationship you might have with a piece of government software as if it were a person. How do we act and feel in relationships? Things can escalate quickly. An interaction could be just the latest in a series of slights, it’s like the app just left a wet towel on the floor or forgot to take out the trash. You’re screaming in your head “I can’t believe it’s doing this to me!” Maybe it’s preventing you from doing something really important, like renewing your license. This has a real effect on our bodies. A universal trigger for anger is a sense of endangerment, which can be signaled not just with physical threat, but more often symbolic threats: being treated unjustly, or being insulted and demeaned. This creates an energy surge in our body which lasts several minutes, but the effects of which can last much longer.
The risk with the neutrality of software is that we may be able to understand every possible logical outcome in a situation (though often we don’t) but we’re unable to assign values to those outcomes. This is especially true with binary systems: a person completes a task or they don’t. This sounds neutral, when in fact the consequences of not completing the task could range from inconvenient to devastating. This lack of awareness is where we get into trouble and sometimes unintentionally do harm. Reason without feeling is blind.
What is the cost of a decision that harms a few thousand people compared to a decision that irritates millions? Ellen Pao talks about problems of scale to The Washington Post “If mistakes are made 0.01 percent of the time, that could mean tens of thousands of mistakes.”So much of an emotional message is nonverbal, and a computer can’t pick up those cues. Designers can’t see people’s expressions or body language, but we can try to understand reactions by paying very careful attention to what people do, particularly in aggregate.Numbers often don’t mean what we think they do, they tell us the what but not the why. Metrics are a great way to come up with assumptions to be challenged, but don’t say a lot without context. If someone is spending more time in a product, is it because the product is great or because the person can’t find what they need?A friend of mine used a feature on a professional networking site that scraped her address book for contacts. She didn’t know the service would automatically connect her to every person in her inbox, an inbox that spans a decade. She was suddenly connected to a person she never wanted to speak to again. Somewhere in a data warehouse, the volume of connections on this service appears to be going up, which superficially seems good. However, the quality of those connections is diminishing. How many of these people actually want to be connected? How many are actually going to return to the site because they were connected to someone they exchanged an email with 3 years ago? That number going up isn’t very meaningful.

Designers need their users’ motivations to inform their own. The best way to understand motivation is to change perspective. Unfortunately, this isn’t always easy, and I had to learn the hard way. After college, as one does when adult problems and a desk job catch up to you, I gained a lot of weight — over a hundred pounds, which I later lost. I learned very quickly what it meant to live in a world not designed for me. Things most people take for granted are ordeals: seat belts on airplanes, buying functional workout clothes, or really any clothes. The first time I walked into a store and realized they didn’t carry my size I felt a lot of things. I felt like the store was actively hostile. I felt like the store was rejecting me and was saying another type of body was better than mine.
I do not recommend trying this.Our perspectives can also be informed by the people we spend time with. If a team is diverse, more perspectives are brought to the table, products have fewer blind spots and designers create more things people actually need. Think about five people you know with wildly different backgrounds and life circumstances, how would they feel using different products?
A little humility can go a long way. Designers are not the users of their products. Right as designers were learning about web standards, popular design offered the wisdom “scratch your own itch.” This works well for solving one specific problem, but ignores all other problems. Designers can’t assume everyone wants what we’re offering. People don’t always use things in the way we expect, only research can tell us what’s really going on.
For a while after my mom died, every birthday and Christmas my Stepdad would get me a Bath & Body Works gift card. His reasoning was that my mom loved Bath & Body Works, so I probably would to. I hate Bath & Body Works. His intentions were sweet and sincere, but every time I got one of those gift cards I felt like he didn’t know me. Every time I design something new I ask myself if I am giving someone Bath & Body Works gift cards.
Good content strategy is a great tool for communicating with an intentional tone. What’s the product’s voice? If the design were a person, how should it be perceived? Friend? Teacher? Trusted advisor? Sham-wow spokesperson? What kind of reaction could this voice elicit when someone is experiencing the product in the worst case scenario?Let’s be honest about priorities. The definition of priority is “a thing that is regarded as more important than another.” By prioritizing one thing, we are inherently deprioritizing something else, do I know what I’m deprioritizing? Eric Meyer says when you call something an edge case, you’re really just defining the limits of what you care about; he calls them stress cases. (He would also like to give credit for paraphrasing Evan Henſleigh.) In December Facebook’s Year in Review product suggested Eric should relive a “great” year, resurfacing a post about his daughter’s death. We invited him to come speak to us candidly about his experiences. Generously, he told us the reason we don’t see planes falling from the sky is because there’s 60 years of air crash data to draw on when designing planes.
This is uncharted territory, and mistakes are going to be made. When designers make mistakes we have to take responsibility to move forward. An honest process has enough time to test assumptions, and to be wrong and iterate on those assumptions. Good research will bring as many new questions as it does answer. Sometimes a product works great in carefully controlled tests, but won’t be stressed until wide release.

Without mindfulness, products might only be rude, but they might also affect someone’s health, their support systems, or their very livelihood. A good friend once told me that to be an adult is to be aware. It’s time for design to become an adult. As product and service design collide, designers are responsible for understanding every ripple of our work.
Nurture the relationships your products are creating as though they were happening in the physical world, and give without expecting anything in return. We have a saying at Facebook, this journey is 1% finished. No one can ever be fully aware, but designers have to be open to growth and the possibility we’re wrong. Less up and to the right, more up and to the heart.
Many thanks to Jonathon Colman, Lisa Sy, Hannah Fletcher and Ed Salvana for their feedback on my drafts.
I make creepy comics and toys, and design @ Facebook.
Stories from designers at Facebook offices across the world

A little over a year ago, I moved to London and as part of the move, I sold my car. This was a big deal for me as a native of LA, where car ownership is celebrated, no matter how bad the traffic gets. I owned a 2004 Toyota 4Runner with 140k miles (not all VCs fly in private jets to work). I am not a “car person,” but I loved my car because it almost never broke down in our ten years together. But, the move meant it had to go, and so it was sold for next-to-nothing to a really nice dad with two kids.
While I may have been sad to see my car go, I wasn’t concerned about being car-less because — when not on strike — public transportation is pretty good in Europe, and Uber is nearly ubiquitous in major cities. I knew Uber was more expensive in London, but everything was more expensive in London and I had factored that into my decision to move in the first place.
What I didn’t expect was that depending on Uber (UberX specifically) would actually be cheaper than owning and driving a car. Much cheaper. Yes, the company says this, but I didn’t think it was realistic yet.
Well, it is. At least for me.
I’ve been back in SF for a couple of months and have been wondering if I should buy a car. So, I compared my transportation expenses over the past two years. There are some obvious caveats, but here’s a quick break-down:
Car (August 2013-August 2014)
Apartment Parking Space: $350/month x 12 months = $4,200 [1]
Gas: 23 gallons x $3.75/gallon = $86.25, $86.25 x 52 weeks = $4,485 [2]
Insurance: $133 x 12 months = $1,596 [3]
That’s $10,281/year right there for just the basics, not factoring in normal servicing, repairs, car washes, other parking, tolls or tickets (and there were tickets). And of course, that’s not including the amortized cost for the purchase of the car in the first place. It’s just the bare annual minimum.
This also doesn’t include the additional Uber, taxi or public transportation fares I had throughout the year when I wasn’t driving — for example, after drinks or when traveling in other cities.
Uber (August 2014-August 2015)
Total cost: $4,655.79
That’s a dramatic difference in cost. But to be fair, I had to rent a car 3–4 times in the last year for an additional $1k or so combined. And of course, like the year before, this doesn’t factor in public transportation costs, etc.
Now obviously there are some significant caveats to my comparison. My cities and schedule changed in this time period (though the Uber-only year includes three months in SF). I could have driven a much more fuel efficient vehicle, taken public transportation down south to Sand Hill more often, found cheaper parking (though I’m not actually sure that would have been possible in SF), etc. This is not an exact science.
But if anything, I was traveling more miles in Europe and riding with Uber more frequently because it was dependable and familiar to me.
And that brings me to the part of the comparison that can’t be quantified: peace of mind. Owning a car — particularly in a city — can be stressful. There’s no fewer than a dozen startups in San Francisco trying to fix just the parking hassle (on-demand valets! driveway-share marketplaces! etc). Not having to deal with a car is a luxury — a cheaper one for me. Even when I commute down the peninsula, the combination of a train and Uber for last mile reach is vastly preferable to the hell that is the 101.
Uber has reached such high city density, geographic ubiquity and price diversity that it can truly be an economical replacement for car ownership for some people. There are dozens of factors that make the trade-off right for me, and that’s obviously not the case for everyone, everywhere (families are an obvious example, though Uber appears to be working on that). But it will increasingly be the right choice for more people as the company reaches even greater density and rolls out new services.
It’s worth doing the math for yourself.
***
[1] Apartment parking isn’t cheap in SF, I believe this is true in other condensed cities as well.
[2] The 2004 Toyota 4Runner has a 23 gallon tank with roughly 15–17 mile fuel efficiency. Pretty bad, but remember, this was an old car. My commute from home to KP in Menlo Park was 70 miles round trip and I’d go down to the office 2–3 times a week. The rest of the time I was commuting around the city or out of town on the weekends. I filled up my tank roughly every week and looking at a historical almanac for SF gas prices that year, $3.75/gallon seems about the average. San Francisco has the most expensive gas in California.
[3] My car insurance was $1,600/year, it probably would have been slightly less if I had a newer car.
[Disclosure: I’m an investor in Uber like literally thousands of other people. I believe it’s good business to invest in products and companies you love, if you can.]

Previously: Investment Partner at Kleiner Perkins, built products for people @Square & @Google. I'm told I talk fast.
How work, business and society face massive, technology-driven change. Curated by Tim O’Reilly, Steven Levy and Lauren Smiley, in conjunction with the Next: Economy Summit coming to San Francisco in November.
Whether on an app screen, a web browser, or a wearable watch face, design is one of the most important drivers of consumer engagement. From flat design to Material design, I analysed what trends have evolved, and share a few of my insights with you — what are these trends? Why are they beneficial to the user? And how are they created?
Let’s look at how flat design and Material design came into play and evolved to the trends we see today.
Instead of incorporating a wide array of gradients and shadows, shifting to a ‘flat design’ creates a lighter aesthetic in the app. This means using negative space — instead of gradients, shadows, etc. — can create a simpler interface, focusing only on having core information and removing design elements that are not productive as itself and to the user flow.
Lighter design removes distraction to help guide the user’s eye to meaningful content on the screen, enabling easier navigation while also providing a sleek, modern aesthetic to the brand itself.
Reducing the number of fonts on a screen can reveal the power of typography. Instead of using different typeface and leveraging different characteristics — e.g. italics, bold, semi-bold — and different font sizes can better differentiate discrete areas of content.
Embracing a singular typeface across an entire app drives consistency not only for branding, but also across channels — e.g. app, mobile site, website — thus optimising the mobile elements across the omnichannel experience. Also, users prefer the simplicity of having one typeface to scroll through in identifying relevant content.
While previously lines and dividers were used to clearly delineate specific sections or categories within a screen, adding these elements can result in dense, crowded interfaces. Straying away from lines, interfaces which leverage clustered blocks of content separated by spaces have the advantage of freeing up that space and establishing a clean look.
The removal of explicit lines and dividers provides a modern look that focuses on functionality; for example, images and/or fonts can be bigger, providing visual clarity and improved ease of use. Leveraging space instead of drawing lines helps to define different sections in a non-obtrusive manner.
As users’ preferences shift toward a simpler interface, usage of big fonts and striking colors get more common to make a certain data the center of focus. Highlighted data can vary according to target customers.
Leveraging increased font size and/or a pop of color draws the users’ attention to a particular area of the screen — without an obtrusive, heavy-handed push or command to do so. As a result, users can access information more quickly, providing an easier navigation and information-gathering experience.
Micro-interactions are small visual enhancements (for example — an animation, a sound etc.) that occur around a use case. These scenarios may include completing a transaction, favoriting an item, or prompting a pop-up message. These interactions are subtle, but they differentiate the product by pointing to the attention the right element.
These micro-interactions can be leveraged as a signal to prompt the user while accomplishing a task — e.g. adjusting a setting — creating a small piece of content like a pop-up message. Apps which have well-done micro-interactions considered easier, more fun, and more engaging by their users.
The usage of simpler color schemes became a trend after the introduction of flat design in 2013, which embraces clarity and simplicity. As a result, designers and users alike prefer the usage of smaller number of colors, aiming for a clean look.
Usage of color is essential in creating a certain mood, guiding the user’s area of focus, and communicating a brand. By using fewer colors, the brand identity can be reflected more clearly. In addition, users may prefer this aesthetic as it removes the distraction that too many colors can cause, and it better highlights key features, improving navigation through the app’s flow.
Previously, interfaces were centered around the principle of skeumorphism, a design principle that takes cues from original structures or objects (for example, digital calendar resembling a paper desk calendar, 3D ‘depth’ on app icons, the shutter click sound of a mobile phone). Now that flat design has shifted away from this principle, it opens up the opportunity to create depth in new ways. Primarily, using layers helps create this feeling of depth and dimension, creating a more ‘tangible’ experience.
An implication of flat design was the risk of being ‘too flat’ — with so much subtlety, how can the user navigate and engage, given their conditioning to a 3D physical (and previously digital) world? Layers provide the ability to show one item is on top of another by taking full advantage of the z-axis. Layering and increasing depth helps identify the relationship between different items, and draws attention to certain items.
Ghost buttons are transparent buttons, having no color fill. Their borders are very thin-lined, and the shape itself is basic — such as a rectangular or squared, with right angle or softened edges. Text in these buttons are simple and minimal.
These subtle buttons can grab the user’s attention while still seeming clean, trendy, and unobtrusive. It also allows for there to be a hierarchy of buttons on the screen — if there are different buttons on the screen — if there are different buttons in the same page, they may be designed and placed with prioritisation (e.g. ghost buttons for optional or intermediate steps). In some cases for material design, subtle shadows are used to help users perceive that hierarchy.
With integration of gyroscopes and motion sensors, consumer devices are able to detect movement. With this, interaction between user and the device moves beyond the click and extends real life gestures to the screen.
Users are intuitive about gestures. When asked how to delete an item, users tried to move the item out of the screen regardless of age, sex and gender. Enhances user experience with less taps and more scrolling, applications become more interactive by positioning the screen more than just a touch target.
Through software innovation, designers now have the ability to take advantage of controlling movement with their style sheets. Motion-based design elements can be seen in a variety of forms, including transitions, animations and even on texture to mimic 3D depth. The use of motions within the design helps users to engage with and internalise content, differentiating that element or data/object from others to highlight its importance.
Motions can draw user’s attention to a specific area — or help to distract from it. By showing a visual response, it can increase engagement, delighting the user with a ‘wow’ factor.
Instead of navigating through multiple pages to complete a single transaction, a single screen can include those intermediate steps and reduce the time and effort spent in app. For example, a form can automatically open or highlight the subsequent input area when the user completes the previous field.
Mobile users prefer to complete their transactions in an app easily and quickly while they are on-the-go. Designing the experience of the applications according to this insight minimizes the effort for the user and can increase the rate of conversion and/or frequency of app opens.
Design standards is the process of setting the visual language at the beginning of the project by determining standards such as colors, icons and global padding.
Setting the standards of the design helps to create consistency within the application and between different platforms. It minimizes possible errors while bringing the project into life and makes it easier to make modifications in the future.
A prototype is a preliminary or early working version of a product. The usage of prototypes can provide valuable insights into the functionality of design, highlighting potential changes needed in order to enhance the user experience without costing a major loss in designer time and effort.
By creating these low-cost ‘experiments’, prototyping can clarify the key components of the project, including the feature scope and requirements. It leaves essential time and resources to learn from the experiment and iterate on the product in an insight-driven process.
UX / Visual Designer at Monitise. Design Process Strategist. Public Speaker.
a collection of insightful articles on modern UI and UX design theory.

I know he’s got at least some money, because he’s buying Grey Goose. People with money don’t buy cheap vodka, or cheap rum, or cheap whiskey. They invest in the good stuff, like Grey Goose. Three bottles of it.
His suit radiates “expensive”, the kind of expensive that involves several tailors and a high-end store in Manhattan. We aren’t in Manhattan, though. We’re in a fluorescent-lit Ralph’s in a suburban city that sleeps from 10 PM to 6 AM. Men who belong in Manhattan look out of place here.
“How are you doing tonight, sir?” The woman working the register asks pleasantly enough. My eyes are fixated on her hands, veins prominent through tired skin, as they scan bottle after bottle. His own fingers drum on the register wall impatiently. A gold band catches lights and gleams from his ring finger.
“Fine. Now, if you wouldn’t mind speeding up this damn process, I’ve got places to be.” He snaps, taking a black leather wallet out of his jacket pocket, a shiny credit card protruding from the top. It looks like it’s made of silver. He holds it gingerly between his index finger and middle finger, and now that his hands are busy, he begins tapping his foot on the linoleum. There is a faint, distinct rhythm, but I can’t place where I’ve heard it before.
“Yes, of course. I’m sorry.” She says softly, taken aback. The last of the bottles, a handle of Jack Daniel’s, rolls its way to the end of the conveyor belt. “I need your identification, please.”
The man heaves an audible sigh. “My ID… Do I appear to be someone underage? Excuse me, ma’am, for finding my way into your line. I thought cashiers were more competent than this.” He’s irritated, and I can see the blood rising from his neck to his temples. The only thing I can think of is the epinephrine that is coursing through his system, raising his heart rate and accelerating his breathing.
“It’s just store policy, sir,” her voice is small. She does not combat him once.
He pulls out his wallet again and nearly shoves his driver’s license in her face. “This is ridiculous,” he mutters.
The cashier is silent as she takes his credit card and slides it through the machine. She holds it in her left hand like it’s an explosive, ready to implode at the slightest, misguided touch. When the computer signifies that the transaction is complete and the receipt finally prints, he exhales loudly. He leaves the line with four bags of alcohol. I wonder how long those bottles will last him.
I shuffle my feet forward, in awe of the man’s audacity to be so outwardly rude. I glance up, noticing the cashier’s face for the first time. Her brown eyes look heavy, and there is discoloration around her neck, barely visible above the collar of the uniform polo. An amalgamation of black and blue and yellow mix together, in vague forms of fingerprints, marring the translucence of her skin. Time slows down and I swear I can see the fibrin forming the intricate meshwork to mend the broken capillaries. I should be more shocked by this sight. I should not be standing here complacent.
“How are you today, ma’am?” She asks, tone betraying defeat, as I watch her put the few cans of soup into a grocery bag. There’s a cut on the side of her right hand that has been hastily and poorly covered by a flimsy band aid that I did not see before. The wound appears to be somewhat old, darkened by days of healing. Thrombin to fibrinogen to fibrin. I wonder how often her body must endure this cycle of blood-clotting.
“Fine, thank you,” I say distractedly. Maybe it is because my mind is still on the Manhattan man, or because I am too caught up in breaking down biological reactions, or because I don’t want to think about the possibility of abuse, but I don’t ask “How are you” in return. The synapse of that thought is dead before it even had a chance to come to the forefront of my mind.
I pay for my groceries with old, crumpled bills and leave hurriedly with a bag in each hand. As soon as I’m out the door it dawns on me that I didn’t reciprocate the question. I slow down my pace and with each step, out the door, onto the pavement, then the asphalt, I feel strange. I didn’t bother to look at her name tag. I didn’t ask how she was... I didn’t ask how she was.
How many customers had she seen, but they had not seen her? How many days can we go through without taking the time to leave our own busy thoughts and comfort behind and extend basic courtesy to one another? Who was I but just another person who left that woman’s presence without acknowledging that she was worthy of a mere question? Perhaps that “How are you” was what she desperately needed in that moment, to have a voice, to feel valued, to feel human, to know that someone cares. I am no better than the man before me who had completely disrespected her. In a sense, I am worse; I have no alcohol or expensive suit to use as excuses, only my own innate selfishness and apathy.
The car is still parked as I sit in the driver’s seat, staring out the windshield at nothing in particular. Looking down at my own hands, I realize in my near 19 years of existence that they have not seen even half the scope of human suffering that is undeniably present in this world. I close them into fists and feel weak.
DNA cannot code for compassion. There is an underlying source of empathy, burying itself in the microscopic spaces between the sequences of A’s and T’s and C’s and G’s, that does not come from myself. I pray that the man in the suit finds wholeness in something far more lasting than the satisfaction of an empty bottle. I pray that the cashier is heard and finds solace in a source of comfort far greater than anything any human could ever provide. I pray that I may become someone who asks how others are doing before they even have the opportunity to ask me.
Thrombin to fibrinogen to fibrin. Mistake to consequence to learning.
These are the ways we heal and grow.
constantly seeking and yearning.
Here there is hope, humor, and help as you deepen your connection to others, yourself, and to your work.
70 years ago, there was no visual technology to broadcast the aftermath of the a-bomb dropped just 3 days before in Hiroshima. On August 9th 1945 at 11.02am, survivors like Shigemi Fukahori — aged 14 at the time — had no idea that they were also victims of a nuclear weapon dropped by a US B-29 plane.
“When I heard the explosion, I had no idea it was an atomic bomb,” Fukahori tells me as we meet in a back room in Urakawa Cathedral, where he is now a parishioner aged 84. “But it was so loud, the ground shook incredibly hard. The moment my body felt the ripples of the explosion, I knew that this was an attack on a scale none of us had ever experienced before.”
Fukuhori, like many others who survived the attack, did not turn to media in the immediate aftermath for information. “Back in those days, there was no TV or the internet so it was impossible to see what the damage looked like unless you were physically present where it happened,” he says. “Either way, we didn’t know the exact weapon dropped in Hiroshima just three days before; all we heard was that it fell victim to ‘a new kind of bomb’. The same phrase had been used on the radio with this attack on Nagasaki. But none of us had the time to process the science behind the attack; we were just shocked with what we saw on the ground.”
The attack on Nagasaki was an outcome of a plan overturned at the last minute by the US forces. Despite setting their sights onto Kokura, another city also in Kyushu prefecture, they switched their target to Nagasaki at the last minute. The sunny weather there was a better opportunity to maximise the nuclear technology; more exposure to heat meant the more damage was going to be done.
Fukuhori was inside a factory 3.4 km away from the epicentre, where he had taken a day off from a Christian summer school when the atomic bomb had dropped. “I survived the attack scarless precisely because I was inside a building in the shade, away from the sun,” he said. “The same applies to my father, who survived because he was working at a weapons factory, which could withstand any kind of attack. But I never found the bodies of my mother, my two brothers and two sisters who were within less than 1km of epicentre; the war had forced them to study at home, which like all homes were made out of wood.”
A few years after the attack, Fukahori left for Tokyo to pursue his studies in theology at university. It was only upon his return after completing his studies that he had learnt of the weapon and saw first hand how it had affected his community; Christians who were regular attendees of the Urakami Cathedral and lived in the area.
“As the men were away fighting when the attack happened, it was the women and children who lived in these who suffered most in the years to come,” he recalls. “Many of the women I know had developed Keloid scars as a result of the radiation from the bomb. Most of these women are now dead; when they were alive, they would not come out of the house as they felt judged for their appearance. Many also chose to remain single, as they were also afraid they would give birth to disabled children.”
70 years later, Urakawa cathedral projected a video on its newly reconstructed building to take audiences on a journey to retrace the series of events. “Because I am alive, I feel a sense of responsibility to continue living the message of peace,” he says. “As the head of a Virgin Mary statue survived the radiation with black scorched eyes, it’s become a symbol of those who endured the pain in years to come, piecing together what had happened to them. Nagasaki must be the last to go through this ordeal.”
Independent Journalist @motherboard @IndexCensorship ex-@AP Deputy Video News Editor. Human rights, arts & current affairs in digital era. @Cambridge_Uni alum
We publish informed perspectives on fringe topics and add outside narratives to perennial stories — voices worth hearing.

Pretty much every new app has the following problem: lots of people sign up but don’t stick around.
I frequently get asked what are benchmarks for retention after one day or one week. My answer tends to be the same for products in the early days:
Most people look too much at the “big data” and try to draw conclusions. In the early days of a product you have to talk to people. You need anecdotes much more than data. You could say The plural of anecdote is data.
To collect anecdotes, you have to talk to actual users. The best users to call are ones who can help you understand why they tried your product and what hooked them. I like to look for bouncebacks. Bouncebacks are users that have tried your product, bailed immediately and didn’t find it useful, came back to try again for some reason (at least 1 week later, or even better, 1 month later), and then got hooked.
The first step is to identify some bounceback users to call. Select users who you now consider highly active users, but had a specific gap between the time of first signup, and getting into habitual use. Look for different ranges of time between their first attempt to use the product, and when they returned and got hooked. Reach out to them and ask if they would be willing to chat with you about their experiences with your product. It is good to target having around 10 conversations. It is ok to divide the conversations up among different team members.
Ask the following four questions:
Try to find patterns in their answers to help you understand:
From these patterns, you can invest in revising your marketing and improving your product and onboarding. Revamp your messaging to focus more on the messages that brought people back and got them engaged. Update your product and onboarding to simplify whatever the users did the second time to get fully engaged.
A lot of this I learned from a project that Twitter ran with Adaptive Path in 2009 to start understanding our user growth challenges. @stop, @trammell and @ladylexy were instrumental in putting together that first set of user research and learnings that led to a lot of the growth work Twitter invested in over the subsequent years.
We learned from early users that many of them signed up for Twitter and thought it was just a megaphone. When they had nothing to say, and didn’t otherwise understand the product they bailed. When they later heard about how valuable Twitter could be if they followed their reverend or the food truck that broadcasts its location every day, they came back and tried again. But this second time they specifically sought out people to follow and had a good experience. We rapidly rebuilt our onboarding to focus much more on following and finding the right people which caused significant increases in how many users were activated after signing up. We revised our messaging to talk much more about finding and following the right people on Twitter instead of talking about tweeting and broadcasting.
I recommend doing this exercise of interviewing new bounceback users every 6 months. You’ll learn a lot about how to keep improving your adoption and activation.
Product Guy. I have worked on Twitter, Facebook Connect, Zazzle, LinkedIn, RealPlayer. Partner at Greylock, looking for crazy new things.



Airbnb, Disney World, Uber and Nest. They are all phenomenal products, which together are worth over $135 billion! Not only do their services deliver great value, their experiences are so well thought out and executed that their strategy goes unnoticed. In other words, their user experiences are invisible.
When designing the experience and interactions of a product, the most common question I ask myself is, “What is the least amount of work a user has to do, to achieve their desired outcome?”
Who actually enjoys fiddling around with dropdown menus, input forms and buttons? Sometimes as designers, we can be distracted by unnecessary noise when thinking through an experience. We bring emphasis to ‘beautifully designed forms’ because it’s the easier way out. One method I found quite effective is to think of the end goal and work backwards. This allows you to think beyond UI elements and really focus on what matters.
As designers it is important for us to think more holistically about a product and its experience. Polishing pixels is important but an experience which is so great that the design goes unnoticed is even better.
Jared Spool, an expert on the subjects of usability and design explains how Netflix sent out a survey asking their users what they liked best about their service. Customers replied with “Great selection of movies, recommendation tool was helpful and the overall service was great. However one thing they didn’t mention was the site was super functional, intuitive and well designed.

When booking a place on Airbnb, the real value is when the host wants to accommodate the guest who contacted them. In retrospect, Airbnb could have thousands of ‘available’ places to stay at but if no hosts wants to accommodate you — you’ll have a negative experience.
So what does Airbnb do to fast track you to the real value?
It’s invisible. Searching on Airbnb is quite simple and the forms are very minimal. When you make a search on Airbnb, behind the scenes they use machine learning to detect host preferences.
Without going too in depth, what this means is that they have created a machine learning model that learns host behaviours and preferences for accommodation requests. With this understanding, they can optimise a ‘guest’ search results with ‘hosts’ that are more likely to accept your request as a priority. This makes your experience on Airbnb more meaningful as you’re very likely to receive a quick and successful response from a host.
I am yet to experience an Airbnb host who does not respond to me.

Disney World invested $1billion on a magical wristband. Why? because it gives them the opportunity to create a frictionless, magical experience through invisible design.
It all begins when you book your ticket online and pick your favourite rides. Behind the scenes, they capture everything from you. With this data they are able to crunch your preferences then provide you a calculated itinerary that keeps you on route and stops you from zig zagging back and forth across the park.
This invisible experience also flows into your restaurant booking. When you make the reservation the restaurant host will already know your name. In fact, you can sit anywhere and your food will magically make its way to you! How? The restaurant is fitted out with advanced sensors which open up a whole new world of opportunities for them.
With Disney World knowing where you’re located in their magical theme park, this also opens up a ton of new opportunities to deliver an ever greater experience. Just imagine your children’s favourite characters come to them instead of them have weaving through the swarm of people.
As you can see, great design brings great experiences.
From a business standpoint, being able to optimise every itinerary will allow people to explore more of the park’s top attractions. When visitors spend less time in lines, they can do more and ultimately spend more!

Taxis on-demand.
Who ever thought one screen could disrupt an entire industry?
Waving down a taxi before the Uber days was a nightmare. Stranded on the busy streets on a cold winters morning at 4am in Sydney, is not a great experience.
The design of the Uber experience is phenomenal. From an interaction standpoint, Uber solves all of the consumers uncertainties within one screen.
On the opening of the app (with location services permitted), the user does not have to engage with any UI elements to experience the value of the product. This is a great example of industry leading design thinking. They’ve nailed “What is the least amount of work a user has to do, to achieve their desired outcome?” on the head.
As the app loads:
If you have noticed with the success of Uber, the entire concept of booking cabs has diminished. Uber doesn’t offer the ability to ‘book a cab for tomorrow’. They’ve disrupted and revolutionised the industry standards and expectations.

Current thermostats are expensive, complicated and inefficient. Tony Fadell saw this as a major problem, so he created Nest. As the designer of 18 generations of iPods and 3 generations of iPhones, he applied his learnings in creating a ‘Smart Thermostat’.
Most people don’t program their thermostats for many reasons — for me it’s because it’s too fiddly. The Nest team have come up with an experience so great, it’s literally invisible.
For the first 7 days of installation, the thermostat will learn your preferences and personalised schedule. Some features it accommodates include:
This is great because it’s all done behind the scenes. The only thing required from the user is to set the temperatures during the first week. There’s no more fiddling around with unnecessary UI elements. Hence why Nest was bought out by Google.
Great (invisible) design comes at a great cost.
As we endure technological advances and a better understanding of technology, data, user behaviours and expectations, these experiences become more and more achievable. That is why there has been a surge and uprise in Personal Assistant apps.

They’re all a stepping stone in becoming great experiences. They’re focused on delivering an experience where the ‘processing work’ happens behind the scenes. “As a consumer, why do I need to click through a form to tell you what I need? Is it because we’re still adapting old practices, or is it actually a better experience overall?”
I do believe some of these personal assistant apps are powered by manual work at the moment — but as these startups continue to capture more and more data, the opportunity to automate a lot of the manual work will become available. In the next 5 years, we are going to see technology become more integrated than ever, with experiences also becoming even more seamless. I am absolutely blown away by what the team over at Microsoft Cortana are doing!

I hope you’ve learnt a few things from this article and that you’re able to put these design thinking principles into practice. I challenge you, to start pushing yourself into exploring new ways of experiencing digital products. We’re in a digital age where lots of things are now possible. Don’t conform to patterns and trends, they don’t last.
I would love to hear some of the innovative experiences you’re exploring or have executed! Share them with me: innovation@mizko.net
Follow me on Twitter. Catch me on Facebook.

The first secret of design is … noticing:|https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9uOMectkCCs
Disney’s $1 Billion Bet on a Magical Wristbandhttp://www.wired.com/2015/03/disney-magicband/
How Airbnb uses machine learning to detect host preferences:http://nerds.airbnb.com/host-preferences/
All about design
Hackerpreneur is a digital Magazine for iOS that explores the shifting landscape of work, creativity, design, startups and entrepreneurship.

It has been over three years since Steve Jobs died.
Since then, books have been written and movies have been made.
Each has celebrated his legacy and aimed to share the secrets he used to build the largest company in the world; things like attention to detail, attracting world-class talent and holding them to high standards.
We think we understand what caused his success.
We don’t.
We dismiss usable principles of success by labeling them as personality quirks.
What’s often missed is the paradoxical interplay of two of his seemingly opposite qualities; maniacal focus and insatiable curiosity. These weren’t just two random strengths. They may have been his most important as they helped lead to everything else.
Jobs’ curiosity fueled his passion and provided him with access to unique insights, skills, values, and world-class people who complemented his own skillset. Job’s focus brought those to bear in the world of personal electronics.
I don’t just say this as as someone who has devoured practically every article, interview, and book featuring him.
I say this as someone who has interviewed many of the world’s top network scientists on a quest to understand how networks create competitive advantage in business and careers.
The Simple Variable That Explains What Really Causes Career Success
In December of 2013, I interviewed one of the world’s top network scientists, Ron Burt. During it, he shared a chart that completely flipped my understanding of success. Here is a simplified version:
The bottom line? According to multiple, peer-reviewed studies, simply being in an open network instead of a closed one is the best predictor of career success.
In the chart, the further to the right you go toward a closed network, the more you repeatedly hear the same ideas, which reaffirm what you already believe. The further left you go toward an open network, the more you’re exposed to new ideas. People to the left are significantly more successful than those to the right.
In fact, the study shows that half of the predicted difference in career success (i.e., promotion, compensation, industry recognition) is due to this one variable.
Do you ever have moments where you hear something so compelling that you need to know more, yet so crazy that you’d have to let go of some of your core beliefs in order to accept the idea?
This was one of those moments for me. Never in all of the books I had read on self-help, career success, business, or Steve Jobs had I come across this idea.
I wondered, “How is it possible that the structure of one’s network could be such a powerful predictor for career success?
How A Closed Network Impacts Your Career
To understand the power of open networks, it’s important to understand their opposite.
Most people spend their careers in closed networks; networks of people who already know each other. People often stay in the same industry, the same religion, and the same political party. In a closed network, it’s easier to get things done because you’ve built up trust, and you know all the shorthand terms and unspoken rules. It’s comfortable because the group converges on the same ways of seeing the world that confirm your own.
To understand why people spend most of their time in closed networks, consider what happens when a group of random strangers is thrown together:
David Rock, the founder of the Neuroleadership Institute, the top organization helping leaders through neuroscience research, explains the process well:
By understanding this process, we can begin to understand why the world is the way it is. We understand why Democrats and Republicans can’t pass bills with obvious benefits to society. We understand why religions have gone to war over history. It helps us understand why we have bubbles, panics, and fads.
The Surprising Power And Pain Of Open Networks
People in open networks have unique challenges and opportunities. Because they’re part of multiple groups, they have unique relationships, experiences, and knowledge that other people in their groups don’t.
This is challenging in that it can lead to feeling like an outsider as a result of being misunderstood and under-appreciated because few people understand why you think the way you do. It is also challenging, because it requires assimilating different and conflicting perspectives into one worldview.
In one of my all-time favorite movies, The Matrix, the main character, Neo, is exposed to a completely new world. Once he is, he can’t go back. He’s an outsider in the new group, and he’s an outsider in his old life. He’s had an experience that everyone he’s ever met would never understand. This same phenomenon happens when we enter new worlds of people.
On the other hand, having an open network is a huge opportunity in a few ways:
The Revisionist Timeline Of Steve Jobs Success
As a result of pursuing his curiosity in different fields throughout his life, Steve Jobs developed an extremely unique perspective, skillset, and network; one that no one else in the computer industry had. He turned these unique advantages into the largest company in the world by having a razor sharp focus. Within Apple, he cut out people, products, and systems that weren’t world-class.
Many are quick to label parts of Steve Jobs’ life as the ‘lost’ or ‘wilderness’ years. However, when we view his life in retrospect, we see that his diversions were critical to his success.
What is labeled as the magic of Steve Jobs or the quirks of his character become replicable principles we can all follow.
It is from this vantage point that we can begin to understand the following quote from a Steve Jobs interview for Wired in 1995:
Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish.
Throughout human history, all societies including our own have created myths that share one common element, the hero’s journey.
Here’s what the journey looks like according to Joseph Campbell, the originator of the term…
Things are going great. You feel normal and fit in. Then something happens, and you change. You start to feel like an outsider in your own culture. You hide parts of yourself to fit in, but that doesn’t help. You feel called to leave and fulfill part of yourself, but that has a lot of uncertainty. So, you hesitate at first.
Finally, you take the plunge. You go through difficult times as you’re learning to navigate the new world. Finally, you overcome the challenges. Then, you go back to your old culture and have a huge impact because you share the unique insights you’ve learned.
The hero’s journey myth is embedded in everything from our society’s classic movies (i.e., Star Wars) to the heroes we glorify (i.e., Steve Jobs), because it hits on core parts of the human experience.
The field of network science shows us two things. (1) The hero’s journey is the blueprint for creating career success. (2) We can all be heroes. It just takes a little faith as you follow your heart and curiosity into unknown worlds. As Steve Jobs said, “You can’t connect the dots looking forward; you can only connect them looking backwards. So you have to trust that the dots will somehow connect in your future. ”
— —
Other Related Article By Me
— —
I would love to hear your thoughts on how you build open networks! And if you enjoyed, please scroll down and click the “recommend” button.
— —
I write at MichaelDSimmons.com and am the co-founder of Empact. To receive more articles like this one, visit my blog.
Award-Winning Entrepreneur / Bestselling Author / Forbes Columnist / Co-Founder of @iEmpact / Blogger at http://t.co/T32xDLUBLJ
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
For the majority of my child and adult life I never considered myself a “morning person.” I was a night owl. During my architecture school career I worked late through the night and slept in the mornings. When I started working at an Architecture firm, I conformed to getting up at 7am… but I didn’t enjoy it. I would get up as late as possible, skip breakfast, rush to work, and then feel like I was trying to catch up the rest of the day.
This type of routine will take its toll on your physical and mental well-being and majorly impact your productivity.
Now, I work from home for myself on various businesses, and I happily wake up around 5:30 am each day. Even on weekends, I’m usually up by 7 am. It could be that I’m enjoying the work I’m doing so much and am accountable to only myself; however, I think it has more to do with the fact that I’ve learned so much about how creating good habits and a morning routine are critical for lifetime success. A morning routine sets the tone for the whole day, and if you do each day right, you’ll do life right.
One of my goals for the beginning of this year was to get into a good morning routine in order to set myself up for the day. It started whenever I read The Miracle Morning by Hal Elrod in January. I knew that not having a good morning routine and feeling overwhelmed and disorganized were connected.
I needed to work smarter, not harder, and the first step was to create good habits.
The first thing I needed to do was quit the belief that I was a “night owl.”
Over the past several months I have been working on “habit stacking” to craft myself a good morning routine that works for me. Habit Stacking is a way to build a new habit into your life by stacking it on top of something you’re currently doing. For example, before I brush my teeth in the morning (current habit) I will meditate (new habit) for 3 minutes. I’ve discovered the personal ritual I have set up for myself has helped put me in the right mindset and offset any morning procrastination. Here’s a previous medium post I wrote about it.
Another great reason to create a morning ritual it is to avoid mental fatigue.
We only have a certain amount of energy and willpower when we wake up each morning, and it slowly gets drained away with decisions. This is especially true if you’re making hundreds of small decisions in the morning that mean nothing yet will affect how you make decisions for the remainder of the day. Try to have the first hour of your day vary as little as possible with a routine.
Avoiding mental fatigue is why Mark Zuckerberg wears the same thing everyday. Knowing exactly how the first 90 minutes of my day looks like is powerful, as it helps me feel in control and non-reactive, which in turn reduces anxiety and ensures I’m more productive throughout the day.

After 6–10 hours without any liquid, you need to rehydrate and wake yourself up. Drinking water is a great way to kickstart your metabolism, especially when it’s ice cold.
A little light stretching in the morning is all it takes to shake off grogginess and limber up for the day ahead. It only takes a few minutes but by doing basic stretches, here’s the ones I do. I use the 7 minute workout app.
When I first heard friends talk about taking cold showers in the morning, I thought they were nuts. Then one random day in mid-February I decided to try it. I’m not going to lie: it sucked. However, I felt so energized and alive after it that I’ve been doing it every day since. If you’re considering it, be prepared for discomfort at first, but also look forward to feeling more refreshed and alive than you have before. Also, it has numerous health benefits
Perhaps the most important part of my routine is clearing my mind so that I can gain focus for the day. I’m very new to meditation. I only added it to my daily life within the past 6 months.
I personally use the Muse headband because, as a beginner, I had trouble learning how to meditate and understand when my mind was drifting. The Muse detects my brain signals to let me know when my brain is calm and focused and when it is not. It is not essential for meditation. I have also heard great things about the app Headspace.
Since beginning the daily habit of meditation I have seen a big improvement in my focus, productivity, and stress levels for the rest of the day.
I’ve been doing bulletproof intermittent fasting since Oct./Nov. of last year, so I only drink BP Coffee in the morning. While the coffee is brewing, I use those few minutes to wash some dishes. No one could ever accuse me of being a “cleaner,” but I enjoy doing the dishes in the morning so I can think through my day. It also makes me feel like I have accomplished something already, which is a great way to start the day.
This 20 minutes of reading has been huge for me. Not only is it enjoyable, but reading books on mindset, personal growth, and business inspires me in the beginning of my day and gets the creative juices flowing. If you’re curious what I’m reading, you can see here.
This part of my morning routine was established more recently and is a creative process. It’s an activity of writing 750 words (around 3 pages) each morning. It’s not blogging or anything that I will ever release to the world. It’s a stream of consciousness of whatever is on my mind, essentially a brain dump on ideas for business, life, and other decisions. Whatever I want to clear my mind of, It gets my brain working and thinking more creatively.
Each morning I write down my goals. First, I write down a long-term goal that I’m working towards. I write this down each day to keep me mindful of my direction so that I don’t go off track. Then, I write down the day’s targets, which are what 3 things I need to accomplish to move me further toward my long-term goal. I usually have my 13-Week Roadmap planned ahead of time that has my goals broken down with a timeline. I’ll delve into this process in another post, but essentially it’s a planning structure so that I know what I should be working on for 3 months at a time. Interested in learning about this? Let me know.
I break down my day in 30 minute increments, enter any calls or appointments I have, and then schedule out my tasks for the day. I always put the most important (coincidentally usually the least enjoyable) first so that I ensure it gets done. I try to never book any meetings or appointments until late in the afternoon if I can help it because my mornings are my sacred hours of peak productivity.
Then I begin working.
I don’t look at my phone, email, facebook, or twitter until after I’ve completed that first big task of my day. I pause my inboxes the night before (using inbox pause) so that, in the morning, if I do need to send out any emails I can do so without being bombarded with any incoming mail. Remember, email is someone else’s request of your time. Prioritize your goals and tasks first before looking at email so you don’t go into reactive mode as opposed to proactive mode.
My morning routine takes just over an hour. I can’t stress enough to you the importance of a great morning routine, as it will set you up for a successful day — and life. With that said, what I do isn’t for everyone. I experimented with a few different things and figured out what worked for me. You should do the same. Soon you’ll know what things work for you, and you’ll enjoy starting your day.
I’d love to hear about your morning routine if you have one. What does the first hour of your day look like?

Cathryn Lavery is a serial entrepreneur dedicated to helping others become their Best Self.
Want to build a morning routine like hers? Use the Self Journal to structure your day and reach any goal faster. It’s live on Kickstarter now


Serial Entrepreneur — Founder of CalmTheHam.com & BestSelf.co
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?

I’ve written and rewritten this blog in my head several times over the past few months. As many of you know, I have been recovering from anorexia since April. I was at an Ivy League school, a D-1 athlete and should have been living my dream. Nobody expected me to end up in the hospital with an eating disorder freshman year, especially me. Now that I have had an abundance of time to reflect on the past few years, I understand what precipitated my eating disorder and have gained a new perspective on the world around me as it relates to eating, health and body image.
I have always been a perfectionist in everything I do, pushing myself to my limit and beyond no matter what the endeavor, large or small. In high school I wanted to be a straight A student, a D-1 athlete and, sadly, more important than all, I wanted to be skinny. I followed rules from my parents, rubrics from my teachers, and directions from my coaches to the letter. So in my junior year of high school when my club gymnastics coach told me I needed to lose ten pounds, I was determined to do exactly as he said. At the time, like many girls my age, I was already having body image issues and confusing puberty with getting “fat”. Thinking I was doing what was needed, I began to throw up after dinner. It didn’t take long before I began purging twice a day but I convinced myself that I didn’t have a problem since I never binge ate and only ate “healthy” foods. I began constantly to compare my body to others. I followed fitness and health food accounts on Instagram and became obsessed with being as fit as possible. Despite how close I was to my friends and family, no one knew what was swirling inside my head. And I had absolutely no idea that I was suffering from anorexia.
By the time I got to college last fall, I decided I wanted to stop the purging and feel “normal” again. I focused instead on becoming even more fit. I began doing extra cardio daily in addition to my hours of gymnastics, and constantly felt like there was something more I could do. I gave into the “gluten free” fad and descended down a slippery slope of eliminating all the “bad” foods from my diet. I downloaded a calorie counter on my phone and I told myself If I was going to be healthy, I was going to be as healthy as possible. I mainly ate salads — and took the dressing off. I drank tons of water to fill myself up. I stopped putting milk in my coffee. My favorite foods — avocados, sushi, peanut butter, bread — became fear foods. I no longer ate carbs, and eventually even the calories in gum seemed to be too much for me. How ironic that my “healthy” lifestyle was nearly killing me.
As I began to get sicker, I pulled away from my friends and family. I obsessed over how I appeared in Instagram and Facebook photos. Around February, I began avoiding eating with people and I was constantly tired, unhappy and cold. My hair was falling out in clumps and my skin was dry and dead looking. I struggled to socialize because all I could think about was food and exercise. The way I looked and what I ate became the most important part of my life. As I deprived my body of nutrients, I deprived my brain (which is normally 60% fat), thus making rational decisions nearly impossible. I was able to convince myself and others that I didn’t have a problem by disguising my food restriction as self discipline. Nobody knew or noticed. I was competing for my team and earning straight A’s. I was even getting compliments on my appearance. By March, I had deemed almost all foods “bad” except egg whites and greens. I thought of myself as healthier than everyone around me. Little did I know that I had a resting heart rate of 30 and was at risk for cardiac arrest.
In April, the “gradual” weight loss abruptly became drastic. My kidneys were failing and my organs were shutting down. My body was deep in starvation mode. Finally I recognized how weak and sick I felt and I was scared. My mom was shocked by my Facebook pictures. Still, I didn’t connect my symptoms with my eating habits until my mom arrived on a red-eye, helped me navigate the healthcare system and I was admitted into the ICU. On April 15th, I began the toughest chapter of my life thus far: recovery.
I spent two and a half weeks in the hospital, much of it on strict bed-rest with continuous monitoring of my heart and other vitals, during the initial slow, steady, often painful, refeeding process. When my heart rate was finally stable, I was discharged and placed on a strict meal plan, implemented by my mother. Once the body has experienced starvation and the nearly fatal process of shutting down, even a small weight loss can trigger the whole process again, even many months after weight has been restored. Eating five or six meals a day is nearly impossible to do alone: recovery from anorexia requires the full support of family. I was able to finish those last five weeks of my freshman year because my mother prepared and served the six meals a day prescribed by my doctors. But I arrived home only to be hospitalized again for a week. Just the increased activity and slight diet change while packing up and flying home had sent my heart rate plunging again.
It was easier for me to be motivated to start eating again when I was in the hospital setting and so clearly sick. As I have gotten better, I have become more aware of how much of my daily life as a young woman, a college student, and an athlete, encourages disordered eating. As soon as I began recovery, I unfollowed all food and health accounts on Instagram and deleted my snapchat in order to quiet the noise about weight loss and fitness that surrounds so much of today’s media. I needed to stop seeing what other people were eating, or what they were doing for exercise or how they looked in their gym clothes. I just needed to get better.
After two hospitalizations, I really understand how dangerous it is to try and alter your own body. If I look frail and bony at age eighteen, how am I going to look when I’m 60? Or how about 80? Will I even make it to 80? The thought itself is scary. In order to stay healthy, I have to remember that good health is something that is continuous and cannot be compared to others. This is my one body; we don’t get “re-do’s” when it comes to our own genetics and it may sound crazy but when I was sick this thought didn’t occur to me. I only cared about changing my body in the immediate and how I looked in the moment. If I felt full, I was fat. If I was hungry, I was skinny and there was nothing in between. Everything about eating and my body image felt urgent and dire, like eating the yolk of an egg would suddenly cause my pants to tighten or that obesity was going to sneak up on me one hour after eating a scoop of ice cream. I never thought about the effect that trying to change my outward appearance had on my heart, kidneys and long-term health.
Now I cringe when I hear someone mention how they want to go “gluten free” to lose weight. Or how they want to go “ano” for two weeks to get a beach body. I struggle to walk into places like Panera Bread or Starbucks where they have calories plastered next to every item. They fuel the ideas that precipitate eating disorders: that some foods are “bad”, or that we are supposed to feel guilty after eating a calorically dense food or that we have to earn our foods before we eat them. Food is food and it is not something that needs to be earned. Our bodies need a balanced diet regardless of whether we exercised that day or not.
So, as many of my classmates and friends have travelled this summer, held prestigious internships or taken summer courses, I’ve been recovering. I have spent my summer in doctors’ offices and labs and therapy sessions week after week and it has been as exhausting and taxing as a full-time job. My hair has slowly stopped falling out, my skin has light in it again, and I’ve gotten stronger. Even though I have been recovering for almost four months now, I still have to carefully manage my intake and exercise to be sure that my heart rate and blood pressure don’t drop. It shocked me to learn that even after regaining the weight I lost, my body still has so much more healing to do. I will be working hard at my recovery for a long time.
As terrifying and hard as many moments of this process have been so far, the main thing I feel is relief. Rather than wishing to be skinny, I wish for happiness. Rather than admiring girls whose bones show, I admire girls who can eat foods they enjoy without anguish. I wish to be able to get an ice cream cone with my little nieces and nephew and not cry inside. I wish fully and mindfully to experience college and life, not just see how it makes me appear on Instagram. But most of all, I wish for health and I wish to never damage my body again.
Brown University ‘18, avocado and redwood tree loving, Public Health major. This is my (rocky) journey to a life free of Anorexia Nervosa 🌻
Home to some of the best articles on medium. Look around, relax and enjoy one with a sip of coffee.

1. If I don’t create, I won’t affect the world around me.
2. Writing is the minimum viable product of my life.
3. There’s no despair that can’t be held at bay with words.
4. When people ask what I do, I have something to point to.
5. Having a career and paying bills is treading water for me – writing gives me a purpose.
6. I have stories I need to tell and beliefs I need to share.
7. Writing can change lives, and there are lives that need to be changed.
8. If I don’t challenge myself, I will atrophy – without writing, my legacy would be a very well curated Netflix library.
9. My writing is my own roadmap – it helps me find my way.
10. I write to meet people and to connect with others who I might never have had any contact with otherwise.
11. Some might say sharing and creating the written word is the entire point of the Internet.
12. Because I fucking love the way simple letters look on a minimalist background.
13. Writing is the only career that has ever felt right to me. When I write I belong.
15. All my family write. And always have. It connects us all.
16. Writing enables me to discover things about myself that I never knew.
17. Right now, we are drafting the future of digital publishing – I wouldn’t trade my place in that for anything.
18. Writing is its own form of innovation.
19. Writing is a skill that can be applied to and is needed by every industry, technology and platform.
20. Being able to write is one of the greatest accomplishments of humanity.
21. My girlfriend likes writers ;)
22. Writing demonstrates more than just an ability to put words on a page – it shows dedication, project management and marketing. It can be a point of professional differentiation.
23. Writing can help me relax and breathe and take stock of my life.
24. People want and need great content, they’re reaching out for it and searching for it.
25. No matter how old I get, even when I’m too weak to do much else, I’ll be able to write.
26. It stops me from being bored in a way that TV can never quite match.
27. Because there are some incredible words out there that are fucking fun to write. Like floccinaucinihilipilification. I don’t even know what that means, but I love it.
28. My thoughts are my own and could never come the same way from anyone else. Because everyone is unique. That’s amazing.
29. Because it gives me something to do on the train.
30. I want people to one day look up to me the way I look up to the writers that I love and respect. I know that sounds egotistical, but I don’t care. It’s honest.
Writing about creativity, tech and business. Contact: jon@jonwestenberg.com Find out more: http://www.jonwestenberg.com
Sharing our ideas and experiences

One week ago, a man brought a gun into a movie theater in Lafayette, Louisiana at the showing of comedian and actress Amy Schumer’s new film Trainwreck. Below is an open letter I have written to her in response:
~
Dear Amy Schumer,
This week, #Aurora and #Lafayette were trending on Twitter at the same time; one tragedy was just closing in court and one was just beginning in a theater. All of this transpired on social media just as we marked the one month anniversary since a mass shooting in #Charleston — yes, that was a hashtag, too.
All of this may seem like it’s playing out on your computer — a safe world away from where you live and work in Hollywood. But as a woman, a daughter and sister, a national figure, and a role model, you have a real stake in gun violence happening all around you.
Your movie — which was so well-received, so brilliant, so you — will now forever have this shooting attached to it. You’ve been caught in the middle of our country’s terrifying, unending war with itself, our sick and twisted relationship with the gun lobby, which tells us we need guns for anyone, anywhere, anytime. Search your movie “Trainwreck” on Google and a scroll-down suggestion will now be “Trainwreck shooting.”
A showing of your film — an honest, unapologetic celebration of women’s rights to our bodies, decisions, and independence — was the place a middle-aged man who, “opposed to women having a say in anything,” chose to commit a mass shooting.
I know the guilt, the sadness, the hole in your heart you’re feeling. I know the crushing anxiety you have for Jillian Johnson and Mayci Breaux and their families. I know the sudden feeling that you are not safe anywhere anymore, the numbness that whisks through your limbs and makes you forget that you’re human and that you’re in control. I know all of this. Not because I was in your exact shoes, but because I own a different make of them.
2012 was the worst year of my life. It was the year America saw the shooting of Trayvon Martin, the shooting in Aurora, the shooting at the Sikh Temple in Wisconsin, the shooting of Jordan Davis, the shooting at the mall in Portland, and the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School.
My mother survived that last one.
Six of her colleagues — all women — were killed, as were 20 first-graders. After the shooting, I dedicated my life’s work to gun violence prevention, and what I noticed immediately was that women are taking the reins in the movement. From the voices of mothers who lost their children to those of daughters who lost their mothers. From the calls to action by young women on campuses to women who work and are raising children they want to protect, in communities of all types. Women have truly begun to lead the gun violence prevention movement — and they are winning.
Women are our teachers, our protectors, our shielders. Women weep in public and in private for the lives we’ve lost, and they’re not afraid to scream at the cameras and go toe-to-toe with monsters who perpetuate these crimes on the streets and in boardrooms. Women are very simply the ultimate moral base in our battles for peace and justice throughout the world.
Women also bear the brunt of the harassment and violence perpetrated against our movement. The hatred and trolling of women fighting for gun reform is specifically twisted to become gendered threats and attacks. They reference rape, “setting us in our place,” obeying men and shutting us up, and overall they simply exemplify the worst of a patriarchy obsessed with the symbol and purpose of guns.
Of course, these extremists are barely a fraction of gun owners in America. But this very vocal minority is very afraid because what we’re advocating is — in their minds — the ultimate emasculation. Women telling men to tone it down with their guns, showing them real data that proves guns don’t actually make them safer. They feel vulnerable and so they call us names to shame us. They use their arsenals and state-willed unregulated access to guns to threaten us.
In the past few months, you produced a fake commercial for an episode of your show that makes a striking point about gun accessibility and the idiocy of our country’s thought processes on issues disproportionately affecting our generation. After a young woman (you) must go through an array of people to get approval to use birth control, the pharmacist reluctantly gives her the pills. She walks away shocked and disgruntled. Then a boy, maybe 10 years old, comes to the front desk and asks for a gun. The pharmacist slings one across to him and says, “Here you go! And remember, it’s your right!”
You get it.
All of these problems — the disgusting comments and harassment we receive on Twitter and other social media platforms, the obsession of many mass shooters (see the Isla Vista case) with anti-feminism and anti-women ideals, the over-idolization of firearms and fetishization of what they stand for, and the easy access to guns all stem from the same group of core ideologies that we must work to shut down.
We must shut them down because every day in the United States, five women are murdered with a gun. Women in our country are 11 times more likely to be murdered with a gun than women in other high-income countries. And from 2001 through 2012, 6,410 women were murdered in the United States by an intimate partner using a gun — more than the total number of U.S. troops killed in action during the entirety of the Iraq and Afghanistan wars combined. Women of color are particularly disproportionately impacted by gun violence. These are mothers, daughters, sisters, our best friends.
This is the experience of women in a country overshadowed by rampant, targeted gun violence and fear and hatred of women by people who are armed. This is not freedom — at least not for women.
Amy Schumer, I and many other Millennials look up to you so much. You are our generation’s epitome of what it means to be a strong, powerful, self-aware champion for the experiences and truths of being a woman and an American today. I admire your unapologetic, unwavering stature and your ability to laugh at yourself while actually pinning the joke on the audience to address often uncomfortable truths. In fact, I have nearly memorized the very end of the speech you gave at the Ms. Gala award ceremony. You said:
“I am a woman with thoughts and questions and shit to say. I say if I’m beautiful. I say if I’m strong. You will not determine my story — I will. I will speak… and I will never apologize to the frightened millions who resent that they never had it in them to do it. I stand here and I am amazing, for you. Not because of you… I am myself. And I am all of you…”
I know deep down that the tweet you sent after the shooting was not all that you’ve got. And we need your voice in this movement. We need your help.
Join your colleagues Sarah Silverman and Kristen Schaal. Join our movement. Write an op-ed. Support an organization. Demand change. Be a voice for our generation and for women — two groups who make up most of the victims of the gun violence in our country.
As you said and as I’ve learned, what truly matters in life is how you decide to write your own story. And in doing so, don’t apologize to the frightened millions who resent that they never had it in them to do it. Instead, show them it can be done.
Daughter of Sandy Hook survivor, student activist for safer communities, gun violence prevention advocate. #Fight4AFuture #Fight4The33 #NotOneMore
humandevelopmentgroup.org

Forget overpriced schools, long days in a crowded classroom, and pitifully poor results. These websites and apps cover myriads of science, art, and technology topics. They will teach you practically anything, from making hummus to building apps in node.js, most of them for free. There is absolutely no excuse for you not to master a new skill, expand your knowledge, or eventually boost your career. You can learn interactively at your own pace and in the comfort of your own home. It’s hard to imagine how much easier it can possibly be. Honestly, what are you waiting for?




edX — Take online courses from the world’s best universities.
Coursera — Take the world’s best courses, online, for free.
Coursmos — Take a micro-course anytime you want, on any device.
Highbrow — Get bite-sized daily courses to your inbox.
Skillshare — Online classes and projects that unlock your creativity.
Curious — Grow your skills with online video lessons.
lynda.com — Learn technology, creative and business skills.
CreativeLive — Take free creative classes from the world’s top experts.
Udemy — Learn real world skills online.




Codecademy — Learn to code interactively, for free.
Stuk.io — Learn how to code from scratch.
Udacity — Earn a Nanodegree recognized by industry leaders.
Platzi — Live streaming classes on design, marketing and code.
Learnable — The best way to learn web development.
Code School — Learn to code by doing.
Thinkful — Advance your career with 1-on-1 mentorship.
Code.org — Start learning today with easy tutorials.
BaseRails — Master Ruby on Rails and other web technologies.
Treehouse — Learn HTML, CSS, iPhone apps & more.
One Month — Learn to code and build web applications in one month.
Dash — Learn to make awesome websites.




DataCamp — Online R tutorials and data science courses.
DataQuest — Learn data science in your browser.
DataMonkey — Develop your analytical skills in a simple, yet fun way.




Duolingo — Learn a language for free.
Lingvist — Learn a language in 200 hours.
Busuu — The free language learning community.
Memrise — Use flashcards to learn vocabulary.




TED-Ed — Find carefully curated educational videos
Khan Academy — Access an extensive library of interactive content.
Guides.co — Search the largest collection of online guides.
Squareknot — Browse beautiful, step-by-step guides.
Learnist — Learn from expertly curated web, print and video content.
Prismatic — Learn interesting things based on social recommendation.




Chesscademy — Learn how to play chess for free.
Pianu — A new way to learn piano online, interactively.
Yousician— Your personal guitar tutor for the digital age.

UPDATE: Full list including the best of your suggestions can be also found here.

Written by @kristynazdot, founder and CEO of maqtoob.com — app discovery platform for inspiring entrepreneurs. At the moment, it features 1,500+ handpicked tools for startups, small businesses, and freelancers.
and she was that girl who wanted to be happy | CEO @maqtoobtools
99.9% of all species go extinct, how will you spend your life?
I never in my life thought I would be writing an article like this.
As many people know I am a strong supporter of AirBNB. Over the last 2+ years, I have hosted over 700 guests in my house and been an ambassador to AirBNB in so many ways, from presenting at a dozen local events educating new hosts, helping new guests become familiar with the platform, writing articles, going on podcasts, running TravelersChat, a Slack community for AirBNB hosts and currently developing a small SaaS app to help hosts. This year I was to speak at the AirBNB Open in Paris, my trip was being paid for by AirBNB. (airfare & accommodation). That’s why the past few days events are so surprising to me.
I wrote this throughout the last few days as this all happened. I wanted to give AirBNB a chance to correct it or give me a real answer before I hit publish. Since they have fallen silent I feel this is my last option to bring attention to this.
9:25 AM, August 14th, 2015
My phone rings with a San Francisco number, the person asked for me by name and said he was calling from AirBNB. I was a little tired, I had woken up at 6:30 AM to let some arriving guests in. But I perked up out of my bed, thinking it must be something about AirBNB Open coming in November. Then the person on the other end of the phone said…
The monotone voice continued to read a short script, telling me my account will be terminated on August 15th. I repeatedly asked why, the voice simply said they would follow up with an email. I was in complete shock, my brain was racing everywhere and I literally started trembling. What the heck is going on?
This is the vague email I received from them minutes after the call.
I have replied three times to the email. I got back a single nearly identical reply with no reason as to their actions.
9:30 AM, August 14th, 2015
I immediately called the country manager for AirBNB. She couldn’t tell me anything, saying that AirBNB HQ didn’t tell her the reason, just that she was aware of it a few days ago and she “fought” for me.
I logged into my account and started looking around. I noticed they had already started canceling reservations and credited my account for the $2,374. Which is just under 50% of future earnings, probably because my cancelation policy is set to strict.
I am absolutely crushed. I have no idea what I could have possibly done wrong. They will not even tell me. I have given so much to the AirBNB community.
My account is to be terminated on August 15th, but I still have to honor guests until next week. Am I even covered under AirBNB’s insurance since they canceled my account & liability?
I have already received multiple emails from guests that were to stay at my place asking why I canceled them. Throughout the day, I replied to them all like this:
I have no idea, no explanation, I feel bad for the guests that were looking forward to a smooth stay on their vacation and now have to deal with this at the last minute.
2:01 PM, August 14th, 2015
I decided to email all three of the founders directly. So far I have not received a response.
This is a letter I sent to the AirBNB founders.
3:16 PM, August 14th, 2015
After I sent this email, I also got a call from my country manager again, she gave me a specific email address to write to. The “Trust & Safety Department”. I sent basically the same email as above.
So far the emails have been opened and read over 350 times, from multiple places around the world. Who knows who these email addresses really go to.
3:46 PM, August 14th, 2015
After looking around on my account trying to see what is going on I see that an iPhone has been logging in all over the USA for 2 months. I have never left Bangkok. I immediately change my password and log out all the sessions on the AirBNB website. I also sent an email to the country manager with the screenshot.
The country manager replied saying she cannot provide any details and I should email another person from now on.
I sent the same email to that new person and also the above screenshot. That person has read the email but never replied.
6:22 PM, August 14th, 2015
The country manager calls me and asks me to coffee at 7:30 PM, and sent an email to me to confirm the meeting.
I go to the coffee shop where she arrives with another person from AirBNB Singapore office. He has just heard about my termination a few hours before. He told me that one of the things that he wanted to do in Thailand was meet me because I am such a huge supporter of AirBNB.
The meeting was basically them telling me they are just as shocked as I am and that they have no clue of what’s going on. We talked about the situation, the whole time my mind is swirling. They offered to buy me dinner, I got an ice tea, I couldn’t eat. After about 30 minutes, I decided to leave. They said they would continue to try and get to the bottom of this. We hugged, said our goodbyes and parted ways, me feeling like I have lost a good friend in addition to my AirBNB hosting job. I just felt sick and no further along than before.
4:26 PM, August 15th, 2015
I received an email that the guest who was to check-in on Monday no longer needs accommodation and the inquiry is now closed. It wasn’t an inquiry but a full booking. I logged into my AirBNB account and see the other guests that were to arrive are now canceled and the funds no longer show as future payouts, not even for 50%. One more guest that is checking on August 15th is still showing as a reservation.
Tell you what, my last guest is going to be treated like royalty.
9:06 PM, August 15th, 2015
I decided to send another message to the founders.
10:45 PM, August 15th, 2015
I greeted my final guests into my home, who would be here for two days, leaving on Monday. Meeting them just outside as the taxi dropped them off. We said our hellos and went inside. I showed them how the house’s electronic door & lighting works. As they said hellos to my cats I carried their bag up to their room. I answered a few questions of where things were and how to get around in Bangkok. Making sure they were all settled in I went in my bedroom to get some rest.
8:36 AM, August 16th, 2015
A guest thats been with me for five days checks out while I am still sleeping. They send me an SMS saying thanks for the enjoyable stay.
10:59 PM, August 16th, 2015
I finally received a reply from one of the Founders. Made me feel like something is moving forward, otherwise why reply at all. Immediately after receiving this another email came in from a Michelle said one-word “Reviewing”.

10:00 AM, August 16th, 2015
My last ever guest leaves the house. For the first time my house feels really big and empty.
6:50 PM, August 17th, 2015
Hoping things would be getting fixed now. I decided to leave my reply until Monday evening.
I also sent a quick email to Michelle.
10:50 AM, August 18th, 2015
Still no reply from Michelle, so I sent my a last follow up email.

I have received no quality replies from AirBNB. Not only have I been kicked out of a community I loved, promoted and cared for, but I have lost a substantial portion amount of my monthly income that I depended on.
This very much saddens me, since I have no idea what the reason is, I can only speculate. I have spent hours going over everything & anything in my head, I have drawn a complete blank. Was a guest not happy? Did another host report my account for some reason?
If it was a guest that reported me for something, I would have thought I would be able to correct it. I treat every guest with the utmost respect and dignity, so a complaint like from a guest seems unlikely.
What in the world could I have possibly done to deserve such a drastic move on AirBNB’s part?
If it is so severe to terminate my account, why let more guests stay at my house after my termination date?
I thought the sharing economy was about just that: sharing, transparency and making the world better collectively?
I poured a great deal of myself & time into supporting AirBNB. I have no idea what steps I should take next, this is completely baffling to me. I still feel this is a horrible mistake, total misunderstanding or misinterpreted policy. Surely this was not the company Brian and Joe set out to build when they could barely pay their rent.
If you found any value in this, it would be great of you to scroll down and hit that “Recommend” button. Also “Follow” me to stay updated.

Hi, my name is Kelly Kampen, founder of Dojo, a streetwear company with a mission. Great threads & giving back: 10% of every purchase goes to causes and charities all over the world. I also do Business Development for Oozou an awesome Ruby on Rails development agency. Coming to Bangkok? Stay at my place.Want to talk? Drop me a line at kelly<at>do/dot/jo
Entrepreneur, LifeHacker, AirBNB Superhost, Founder of @DojoThreads Dojo Threads & Gear http://do.jo, Biz Dev @Oozou a Ruby on Rails Agency http://oozou.com
This is my adventrues and thoughts on being an AirBNB Superhost
